I think there's three things you need to
do here income income pays your bills
income can pay your mortgage income does
everything without income you've got
nothing optionality you need to have
things that can pay off a startup or a
hobby business on the side that will
never happen if you work for a
corporation focus on your income work
hard look for other opportunities that
can leverage that and then thirdly if
I've got this income look for investment
opportunities that can change my life
the financial system is not as bad as it
was so they're not the bad guys this
time around they got told off they got
said no don't borrow as much money
the individuals have not been great but
not terrible
the government borrowed a lot more
and corporations borrowed a lot more so
to put it in perspective
the U.S
is about 25 of the global economy
yet they have a hundred percent
equivalent of global GDP in debt
so this is the most indebted economy
in the history of world economics
in terms of
Global debt because it's so big
now the US is not the only one here
Europe's got massive debts Japan's Got
massive debts so lots of China's got big
debts everyone's got debts because we
borrowed for our future selves
you know why why
get enough tax income for the road
system I need to build why not just
issue more bonds and build it now
because the bet is I'll create more
productivity in the future and then GDP
grows and it's easier to pay off and
that generally works okay like the bet
that you took is will my income be able
to cover this debt in future
in most circumstances it is
but what happens is when your debt
becomes so large
and something happens to your income
then you start to say well can I pay
this debt so we talked about that part
the other part is
well everything's backed by collateral
as you mentioned before that's the thing
that you pledge
when you take out debt
now if collateral Falls too much in
value somebody touched on the shoulder
and says that stuff you gave us in
exchange for the money doesn't cover the
money anymore
and then you get this liquidation that
we talked about
this can't happen
on a economic level it can happen to you
and I it can happen to us on our crypto
accounts it can happen to us in our
financial accounts but we can't let it
happen systemically because then
everything goes so we came very close to
the edge
in the US and Europe in 2008.
so much so that the banking system
seized up entirely because the
collateral the house prices
went down
and then the banks were like oh [__] we
don't have enough money against all of
this and then people weren't paying
because we're going to recession that
big Doom Loop happens
in Europe it came we got that but then
there was another one in Europe which
was the EU crisis this time it wasn't
the banks that were in trouble it was
the governments Italy Spain France
Portugal Greece couldn't pay their debts
and then that was the really holy [__]
moment
is if whole countries that part of
Europe these are big massive Nations
can't pay their debts and we're all
[__]
because then that's the whole banking
system gone that's the whole system of
government gone that's everything on so
they backstop the system by saying we'll
do whatever it takes this was Mario
draghi's favorite famous term so the
basically the EU got together and said
we will buy these bonds
to stop them falling
it's a price in bankruptcy because
against government bonds as we talked
about it's the risk-free rate
well if it's not risk-free then all of
the other debt that's borrowed on top of
it would have blown up to
so how did they how did they buy that
were they printing more Euros correct
correct that's been the answer since
2008 is to print currency to buy bonds
which is known as currency debasement
and this many purists in the financial
markets that it doesn't work that way
the mechanism but it's very clear that
this is
basically monetary debasement what
monetary debasement means for anybody
doesn't understand is
is let's say you're thirsty Tom I sell
you a bottle of water
you want to buy it because you're
thirsty so I can charge you five dollars
for it
then let's say I say
well you can't buy one bottle of water
no there's only one bottle of water
around if I say look I've got 20 bottles
of water
well it's it's not that panicky to get
that one bottle so it might clear it
three dollars for that bottle of water
now if I've got a million bottles of
water what water's worthless
right so the more you create of
something the less value it has
so if there's one Picasso it's worth a
fortune
if Picasso had made
five thousand of exactly the same
painting they're worth less
so we see that with for example
one-on-ones of Warhol versus warhol's
Factory where he produced very similar
pieces that they're worth less than the
others we see it in the nft world as
well so scarcity versus abundance so
what you do when you print more money
means there's more money around so it
lowers the value of the money so that's
that's debasing currency so this is why
they can't let the system go bust
because now there's so much Leverage
that everything goes and we saw this in
Argentina famous moment in Argentina in
2001 I believe it was
called el corralito where the
argentinians
couldn't pay their bills but the
government
so what they did is they had this dual
economy the Argentinian peso and a
dollar base peso they just took all the
dollars from the bank accounts and
convert them into pesos
so they got the dollars themselves to
pay their debts but basically
utterly destroyed the peso
and destroyed the economy so much so
that Argentina
reverted to barter
it was an extraordinary Moment In Time
um so that that's the risk the other
time we saw something similar in a more
developed country was Cyprus Cyprus a
European country
now Cyprus
they had a financial crisis there was
too much debt it was based around
property
and so what happens is the banks were
insolvent like they were in the US and
like they were in Europe
but the answer was
the ECB said we're not bailing you out
so what they did is took any deposit out
of the banking system over a hundred
thousand Euros and took it
so it wasn't your money
oh just this is what got me into crypto
in the first place once I realized it's
not your money even if it's in a bank
it's not your money
um so these are the these are the laws
of unintended consequences that happen
if you allow the collateral to go under
if we were less levered like in India
the country's very unlevered it's like
call it 60 of GDP in debt in a fast
growing economy it's going 10 a year
right that's that's like you taking the
mortgage out and the mortgage isn't that
big and you've got great income right
the probability of you not being able to
pay that debt it's very low
so it doesn't matter if Indian assets
fall a lot and stuff like that because
there's nothing systemic there you're
not going to destroy the population
um but when it's the us or Europe you
can't allow it you just simply can't
because also part of this is you've got
this huge old population of retired
people or people trying to retire
if you allow the market to clear
then their savings pool disappears now
it's all right for you and I we've all
gone through parts of our career where
we've lost a bunch of money and we make
it back you know you've started created
a startup doesn't work
you work hard but you can't do that when
you're 75 years old
what's lost is lost
and then you have to halve your income
your spending because you've just lost
half your pool of money and you don't
know how long you're going to live for
so this is why there's so much
complexity with old populations lots of
debt you just can't allow the system to
go under
wow yeah that's uh that is
really interesting and unnerving at the
same time the interconnectedness of all
of this and then of course it begs the
question what is India doing that we're
not doing is it just discipline is it
lack of opportunity like how are they at
60 when we're at three to four because
that banking system didn't really
function and they were more restrictive
on their lending policies
which is a function of their economy
being
more emerging than developed
so people don't want to lend them as
much either because they're more risky
you're like a startup even though India
is obviously a very old thing but you
know in in these terms
um and so and they ran a bit more
inflation than other countries
so it's really that and they have a
culture of savings
it's because when you're able to borrow
because you're the richest dude on the
street wins the most money which is the
United States
and humans have a propensity to borrow
to create the image of this future self
the future self was
the amazing United States of America
that dream that we had in the 50s
that dream died decades ago
and to fund that dream
the mismatch between the dream and the
reality is dead
sometimes debt is not all bad right
sometimes it can help accelerate some of
the things
but if you're doing it to fund a dream
that's never going to exist
that's the danger
all right let's go back then to the so
what defined the American dream and what
killed it
the American dream
that came out in the 50s
was about the Wonder
of economic growth technology
peacetime
and abundance and opportunity for
everybody everybody could be the
president everybody could be rich
that mentality is terrifying because it
creates a misalignment of present self
and future self so everybody feels
like they never got there
you know this was the whole book fair
and Loathing in Las Vegas by Hunter S
Thompson was basically this
is that's what Vegas is about we don't
have gambling in the same way in Europe
you can go and gamble it's just not a
big deal but in America it is because
it's about this future expectation of
yourself I think driven by the American
dream and obviously a frontier style
economy and how the US you know gave
birth to itself
so the American dream was set up and the
whole construct was set around it
and then two bad things happen
one bad thing number one is everybody
goes this is [__] amazing I want to
have kids
right Prosperity great time so all of
the people had gone through the work the
war or maybe two Wars had kids those
kids were the Baby Boomers and they had
too many kids
they had too many minutes in in what way
for the planet uh because for the
children themselves
so what happens is
is if two of us go for a job interview
we have a 50 50 chance
if a thousand of you do you have a one
in a thousand chance
so what happens is if too many people
come into the workforce at the same time
they compete with each other
for PR for wages
and if you look back an inflation
adjusts wages
for the average median American or the
average American particularly the median
American over the last 45 years it's not
gone up at all
so there's been no productivity growth
the miracle never happened
but in the meantime the price of assets
went up why because there's a whole
bunch of people at the same age who all
want to buy a house at the same time all
want to buy into the stock market at the
same time to stay for their retirement
they pushed up prices
so they got poorer because they couldn't
they didn't Own It All
and so the more they tried to buy over
time the more it went up and they got
this massive Gap
and that gap between their earnings and
the costs of of assets that you secure
your future income in kept going up so
they borrowed money
and when you when you basically adjust
by asset prices like house prices versus
wages the difference is the debt
and then the government started doing
the same so it was all driven by the
Baby Boomers but the Baby Boomers had a
second shock
and a third shock
second shock came really in the late mid
80s which was computers
computers started competing for jobs
with people
slowly at first
and then faster
and then 1996 the W 1999 2000 well 1996
the W TR the World Trade Organization
WTO
agreed that what a great idea let's all
trade without tariffs with each other
free markets
yeah well the free market actually meant
that when China entered the global
Workforce
they would work for a fraction of what
you and I would work for
and so that meant labor costs never went
up and the cost of goods got cheaper
because China could produce them cheaply
so we just gorged on this stuff because
there's cheap Goods we borrowed more
money because we had this future
expectation of ourselves being rich the
American dream and we Gorge a little
more money and we borrowed money to see
if we can make money from asset prices
so this whole thing was driven by
demographics and that came out of World
War II so it's World War II that drove
all of the mess were in now and that's
the same globally
was there a baby boom all around the
world
no
the US yes sorry there was a baby boom
everywhere
the difference was Europeans
didn't have a second baby boom which is
the millennials
the U.S has the Millennials and that's
helped the US economy outperform Europe
over time Japan didn't have
um Millennials either so that they're
all older populations the US had the
millennial population so the millennial
population it pops up into the workforce
you know the Millennials you know about
four years ago started hitting 30 years
old that that big thing this is a big
bunch of people problem is they look
into the world their parents are still
in the workforce so they need to compete
with jobs with their parents there's a
whole bunch of them competing with each
other
they all try and go to university to see
if they can get a better job so they
drive up the cost of University they're
going to come out of University they'll
try and buy a house they drive up the
cost of how I mean it's just a mess when
you have these bulges of population you
create all these distortions so these
Millennial populations were
screwed because the their parents have
driven up the price of assets so high
trying to save enough to retire which
has never really happened
that they look they come out and say
right I'm earning money now what do I
buy oh the equity Market at all time
high valuations the bond market all-time
low yields
property prices are too high to afford
I'm [__] you know again all of these
are why I got to crypto because I knew
that I had a different expected future
return because their parents had known
the stuff and therefore they themselves
could help Drive the price up and the
adoption as long as they bought it and
owned it
okay so demographics are destiny that
that's something that you're here said a
lot which is
um terrifying I suppose I don't like
anything to be Destiny I the idea of the
American dream so going back to what you
were saying about Vegas
um
that is a fascinating take so what may
have somewhat distorted my view of all
of this is that the American dream
worked for me perfectly right I I'm a
gen xer but I'm why is everybody
watching your show
because they want it to work for them
yeah so here's here's where we get into
something really weird so what you and I
were talking about last time is hey I
see this opportunity in crypto which by
the way my thesis is still intact in
terms of that and so I hope that people
aren't panicking
um that they didn't take leverage that
they were slow and steady wins the race
um I haven't sold a single Satoshi
um to give me a sense of where my head
is at
but
Ralph the reason that things worked out
for me is really twofold one I have an
obscene work ethic that makes even
myself sometimes uncomfortable uh
there's a Jordan Peterson quote that I
think is really insightful which is
don't ask why there aren't more women
running Fortune 500 companies ask why
there are any men at all and what he
meant by that is it is so grueling that
why does anybody do it and since I got
into nfts I've been working for the last
eight months at this point maybe nine
I've been working 120 hour weeks
and
even I'm like what am I doing like this
is crazy so that's number one my work
ethic is insane uh number two I believed
it could happen
now you put those two together it does
not necessarily equal a good outcome I
am hyper aware of the role luck has
played in my life
but if you take either one of those away
it is a guaranteed failure so if you
don't work hard you are [__] if you
don't believe you can achieve you won't
do the things you need to do to be
successful because why would you it
doesn't make sense if you don't think
it's going to work out and so while
there can be no guarantee of success
one thing I am really trying to get
people to do is believe that it it can
happen now I will Define it differently
as in if you can make something that
people want more than they want their
money then you can be successful so
let's talk about it in financial term
Financial Market terms or macro terms
I think there's three things you need to
do here
one income
income rules the world
income pays your bills
income can pay your mortgage income does
everything
without income you've got nothing income
takes hard work
it's hard to get up the ladder earn more
income
secondly is you need to have optionality
you need to have things that can pay off
a startup or a hobby business on the
side can give you optionality because
you can build a business and a business
has intrinsic value plus it can increase
your income
that will never happen if you work for a
corporation yes you can have a great
career and do fine but you'll never have
that extra upside that you and I have
had by building businesses
so that is another thing is is
focus on your income work hard
look for other opportunities that can
leverage that income and opportunity set
that you've got for you
and then thirdly is if I've got this
income look for investment opportunities
that can change my life
and that doesn't mean being a degenerate
gambler
it's like simply put if there is a
thesis for example in cryptocurrency
that you and I shared that this is a
long-term Network adoption of this
incredible technology that is
exponential in nature and highly
volatile
you should be looking at the moments of
extreme weakness the blood on the
streets moment
to be buying more not on Leverage but
just putting your money into it
so if you'd have bought a house after
the 2008 crisis you'd have done very
well
if it had bought it at the peak
you'll have done less well right so
timing matters
and I looked at this to give you a
specific example just wrote a whole
article about this is I went back with a
bit of honesty
thinking
I'm looking at my eth price and I'm
going why didn't I sell it at 3 000 I
should have just you know I could have
bought it back cheaper and I know that
that is a siren song that goes in your
head right mental torture
and I've been in this space since 2013.
so I went back
and looked at my entries and exits and
what I did in the past and what had
happened if I just bought and hold and
what had happened if I bought and hold
and added when it was this far oversold
which is very simple
so I figured out that if I'd
I so what I did is I bought in 2013.
200 per Bitcoin
it went up to whoa it it went up to a
thousand
sorry it went up to a thousand
in
six weeks
I was like oh my God but I had a
long-term thesis I wrote the first kind
of macro strategy paper about the
valuation of Bitcoin I thought this
could be worth a million dollars and
let's assume I'm an idiot by 90 it's
still worth 100 Grand so this is the
best bet I've ever seen
so I
held on and then it fell 82 percent
and I'm like wow but I'd taken the bet
and I put money in but it's not levered
and I could afford to take the bet so I
just thought I'm just going to forget
about this and just see because this is
a longer term thing and you don't
normally make money that fast and
doesn't normally fall this fast let's
just see
and then I kind of forgot about it 2014
and then 2015 stops going up again and
then by 2017
I'm now mentally scarred from an 82 drop
Coulda Woulda Shoulda
I then see confusion in the market about
either we're going to Fork Bitcoin since
two different chains the price is 2 000
I'm now up tenfold I'm a genius my macro
bet has paid off
sort of I sell out it goes up to 20 000
in three months later and I don't mind
I don't mind because I've made 10 times
my money what I did was deviate from my
thesis my thesis was this was a 10-year
bet
and I took the money off the table
within five
and then I went back and then obviously
I bought back in
June
May something like that 2020.
and had a good run and put more money
into it than than I had originally in my
original bet and I worked out that
I had
as opposed to just holding my original
bed
I use a theoretical number
so I think it was if you put 10 grand
into that first bet
it would have been worth
1.4 million wow by doing the right thing
buying reasonably low and selling
reasonably high and you know timing the
market
that was a small fraction it was in fact
I think I make 20 of what I would have
meant if I held on
and then I went back
and looked at okay well what did I
actually do because I massively
increased my position in in uh in June I
still underperformed by 5X
and then I'm like okay what happens if I
done the right thing what I should have
done which was my framework which was
you buy it when people when it's on sale
when there's blood in the streets so I
went back and looked at the the bottoms
of the bear Market assumed I'm an idiot
and I can't catch the bottom of bear
market and miss it by 30 percent
and just put the same amount in each
time that I started with
that 1.4 million
would have been 30. wow sorry not 30
sorry three
good Lord
had I rolled my profits in
you know had I just
double down each time or whatever the
numbers go exponentially larger
and that really stopped me in my tracks
it's like here's me doing the right
thing you know buying when it's in a
bull market selling when it's in a too
strong a bull market buying when it's
down a bit and I still didn't do as well
as just holding it
and I if I just added to it I would have
done well and my framework is this is a
long-term Trend right we've got at least
another decade in this at least probably
two or three decades but this part of it
is going to continue to do very well
sure Bitcoin over time as it gets more
users more adopted it won't go up as
much each cycle but there'll be plenty
of others and plenty of opportunities so
what we should be doing is using this
thinking of the money you've put in as
your retirement money
and writing it off
um and then just adding if you've got
money
in a bear market now the problem is is
most of us don't in a recession but a
friend of mine taught me very early on
he said well there's a key thing I've
learned is he who has cash in a
recession is King
so that's that combination of income
and opportunity you've got income you've
got some cash and now everything's on
fire sale prices
you're the king
what is up my friend Tom bilyu here and
I have a big question to ask you how
would you rate your level of personal
discipline on a scale of one to ten if
your answer is anything less than a ten
I've got something cool for you and let
me tell you right now discipline by its
very nature means compelling yourself to
do difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact I will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
all right I've just released a class
from Impact Theory university called how
to build Ironclad discipline that
teaches you the process of building
yourself up in this area so that you can
push yourself to do the hard things that
greatness is going to require of you
right click the link on the screen
register for this class right now and
let's get to work I will see you inside
this Workshop from Impact Theory
University until then my friends be
legendary peace out
so what what do we learn about the
psychology through all of this because
this really feels like a psychology game
I'm I'm really glad that this has
happened quickly so for me I've been in
crypto for less than two years and I
have seen now even in that time sort of
multiple like oh it's all over no we're
back no it's all over and so
watching the Whiplash of how people feel
act talk even like what where I go from
feeling like I am so smart like this is
insane to oh like is this really gonna
play out like the level of Doubt where
to your point I just have to turn off my
brain I'm like I'm not gonna think about
it I was perfectly will when it was up I
was like if it went to zero I would be
fine so I'm like if that's really true
then chill you're fine like you know
just let it do what it's gonna do and if
you were lucky enough like you and I
to have bought slightly earlier in the
cycle
then for goodness sake don't look at
your loss of wealth from Peak that's
stupid that's the American dream
fixating on something that doesn't exist
think okay fine I'm still I'm still in
I'm probably still up
don't think oh my net worth down 50 this
is the end of the what no that's not how
it works
how it works is you need to be in it to
win it and you can't be in it to win it
if you've got Leverage
or if you're out of the market
and so if if you say to me well you know
that's difficult for people
sure then put Less in
it's as simple as that you get to the
point where you can sleep at night then
you've got the right size bed
um and once you have made money and it's
compounded
then don't look at it from the pizza
trough so one of the tricks I've learned
with myself in a slightly different
thing is wine
I I love wine
and wine good wine is expensive but it's
a lot cheaper if you buy
early uh when it comes out
so I bought and I've just taken a
delivery of stuff I bought 15 years ago
now what I do is this little mental
trick which is I write off everything I
pay for wine when I buy it because I
don't see the wine for 15 years so why
do I care whoa
and so mentally it's gone to zero
so now I'm able to drink wine which I
would never open
because I haven't paid for it I kind of
like I wrote it off
um and it's really helpful to use Mental
tricks on yourself to stop yourself
doing things you shouldn't be doing
which is selling at the low buying at
the high or you know buying a bunch of
wine and then not being able to drink it
and you actually buy it to drink at it
sell wine but if I if I did I would have
just sold all my wine I've never tasted
amazing wines it's
these mental tricks we have to play
it's interesting you mentioned earlier
the siren song of you know looking at
like oh my God if I had sold at that
point like I would be so much farther
ahead than I am now it's interesting
that you use the siren song So for
people that don't know the mythology
there were these Sirens supposedly that
would call to men they would sing this
incredible song and the men would want
to hear it more so they would sail the
ship closer and they would crash and so
the sirens were intentionally trying to
get you to ruin yourself basically and
in this story the solution isn't to
develop the willpower in order to resist
the siren song his whole thing was tie
me to the Mast so that I can't move all
of you block out the sound so that no
matter what I say you don't listen to me
and I can enjoy the the sound of it
without being able to take action on it
so basically you have to find a mental
trick in order to deal with it you're
the lashing you to the the rail is to
write off the wine so that you can enjoy
it when you get it right off the
Investments I've got in in crypto
and then I observe the sentiment I
observe the sirens I hear the song but
they don't affect me
well they obviously do affect you but
you you try not to let it affect you as
much you distance yourself from Price
action because your theory is that it's
going to go from here to a lot further
over time that keyword is over time and
we've all said all of us have said and
we know it does this a lot on the way
so then if you know that it's a no known
why the hell when it happens do people
forget it's so funny when when Bitcoin
and eth crashed last year
fell 50 or 55 from the high
I spoke to my wife and I'm like God
everybody's freaking out you know and
she's like why what's happened I said
well it's down 50 she said but you said
that's normal and her exact words so
just shut the [__] up you should be
buying here not freaking out I'm like
yeah true you have to remind yourself
yeah like this is a two-part process if
you want to succeed so going back to
answering the fundamental question that
we're here to answer how do you thrive
in a time like this so one you have to
have the understanding of the market the
macro Trends all of that to know what to
buy and then you have to have the
psychological resilience that even
though you feel it to your point like I
feel that we're down and it does not
feel good but it hasn't changed my
behavior and so because the thesis is
still intact
yes and so let's look at other
opportunities so maybe not everybody
likes crypto another thing that is
patently obvious is technology is not
going away
now it's not easy to pick the right
technology stocks much like it's
difficult to pick the right nfts or
tokens unless you really know what
you're doing and or you
yeah you know that particular company or
that project
but if the thesis is that technology is
going to continue to have this
ridiculous adoption whether it's AI EV
whether it's robotics whether it's
genetic Sciences all of these things
that are around us space travel
well then if it's being sold
in a fire sale
because everybody's panicking
well surely that makes sense because
technology has outperformed the market
for the last 40 years
so you always want to be buying
technology so if you're thinking of your
401k you're a you know you're in your
30s you look at your 401k and you've
still got your income because that's the
most important thing of everything
you've got your income you should be
going okay I should be buying technology
stocks and I should be buying crypto
because these are long-term Mega trends
now is there so we're living in a very
particular moment but one thing I like
about Ray dalio is his idea of this is
another one of those
is this like another time is there
something that we can learn from
historical trends that we could be
applying to our investment thesis now
so the investment thesis I don't
believe so necessarily there's a lot of
macro similarities with the past past
episodes and everybody makes it very
dramatic there tends to be a lot of Doom
porn and I've been a proponents of that
as well you know everything looks like
the 1929 crash everything looks like
we're going to get to World War II
everything looks like you know it's 2001
all over again
yes those things happen
but
things go on
and if you bought tech stocks after 2001
crash
you'd be very very wealthy indeed
Jeff Bezos
he launched Amazon bright-eyed and
bushy-tailed has his IPO
it explodes in price it was like oh
amazing an online Bookseller it then
Falls 96 percent
right so that's exactly what
um I went through in crypto exactly the
same
and then what happened is well unlike
most of his investors he held on
and it went up a lot again still didn't
make up the high it fell another 80 and
went up again and then fell 60 and then
before you know it this online
Bookseller was suddenly worth more than
all the book selling companies in the
world added together and it was still
trading at a price earnings ratio of
like 800 everyone's like this is crazy
this is a bubble but what we didn't
realize is he was building a network
this network for e-commerce and then the
computing power that drives it
you know and so
over time Amazon just did that and these
are the things you need to think about
in this is where are we in the
volatility and is this going to survive
those are the two questions and if the
long-term trend
is there
then you should be buying into all of
this
what are the smartest people buying
right now anything are they sitting in
cash are they moving on something
there's a lot of cash so I have my
Global macro investor round table which
is a bunch of my subscribers for my kind
of very high-end institutional research
service a bunch of the world's most
famous hedge funds family offices Asset
Management firms and we all have this
little Enclave here in the Cayman
Islands with a lot of wine and a lot of
discussion and trade ideas and stuff
like that and generally people are a lot
in cash
the real estate
developer guys you know the kind of
wealthy guys who are in real estate is
their primary thing a lot of them had
sold quite a lot
um then the
the hedge fund guys were
very concerned about recession
but we're looking
and so they were buying
let's call it cash bonds cash anything
to kind of just not be involved in Risky
assets like stocks and stuff but they
were looking for the opportunity for the
other side which is what what is that
opportunity and that opportunity was
technology
crypto
and commodities
Commodities have gone up a lot recently
but we've got this um it's this Greening
thing that's going on right we're going
to Green the world
we have the political willpower to do it
and it's going to happen faster than the
market can take
and that means we under invest in mining
stuff
and we over invest in
Battery Technology
Wind Farm solar Farms right and the idea
is eventually
you accelerate this so much that it
becomes the adopted technology and
electricity becomes cheaper from doing
it
the issue is there's not enough copper
for the electricity we need to generate
so we're about to go into this enormous
copper shortage you don't notice it now
because the economy is weakening and so
less people demanding copper but once we
come through the other side of this
you're going to have this huge demand
for copper and it's a problem
but it's part of that green energy
transition green energy transition also
is going to require a lot of other stuff
to build these wind farms these solar
Farms the hydrogen power that you know
and whether we go to atomic energy or
whatever it is it's a whole change in
how the world works it's very similar to
the 1950s when we kind of rebuilt
America the factories and all of that
kind of stuff so that moment in time
means that these guys wanted both
Commodities and Technology
um
because they know this one's probably
kind of a a good five or ten year cycle
and the technology cycle is Limitless
right now so that's I guess where most
people were thinking but everyone was
very nervous over this next three month
period about what happens to the economy
and what could happen to markets so what
signals are they looking for I'm
assuming everybody going into cash is
thinking okay blood is in the streets
but I'm not yet sure which way things
are going whether I've got the timing
right but I imagine there are certain
signals that they're looking for so if
it's copper and we're looking for that
transitionary moment or are they buying
it now like what are the
um what are the signs that they will
look for to go in on something so we
talked about
income plus opportunity so they've got
the cash so you know one of the world's
best technology invest investors go to I
think they're 70 cash whoa which is
extraordinary because these guys are you
know they're aggressive
technology investors 70 cash there's a
whole bunch of people who are
so what they're saying is the future
opportunity
is going to be big
and it's going to be cheaper than it is
today
now will they time it properly well Etc
doesn't really matter but here's what
the smartest people are saying is the
future opportunities better than the
present opportunity
so that's a little scary though because
that means prices are going to go down
further
well we don't know when they had that
bet they might have done that four
months ago in which case it's been a
very good bet and they'll be looking to
deploy
if I read their investor letter they say
they're now starting to look to deploy
stuff into interesting opportunities
where things are really cheap which is
the thing I said before when the market
throws out the baby with the bath water
that's when you start finding the things
you really like you know in crypto World
things like Solana great project down 85
percent there's a whole bunch of these
big
layer ones with network adoption effects
already that these are not super
speculative assets that obviously
speculative risky but not super risky
they're all down 80 85 87 okay that
becomes interesting
what is it that makes Bitcoin
interesting enough that so many smart
people see this as ultrasound money and
what does ultrasound money mean the
world has a history of money
whether it's backed by gold or not
where government
gets themselves excessively into debt
and they devalue the money
so the Romans used to clip the edge off
the coins so there was less gold in each
coin
and eventually people would lose faith
in the coins because they'd blend them
with silver and then blend them with
copper and you know the coins were
worthless because that was supposed to
be worth the value of the of the Denari
in Roman times
but governments can't help themselves
humans we're just humans right humans
are fundamentally flawed creatures and
we always will be
so then we have these gold standards you
know the US and the UK are on gold
standards World War One World War II we
all have to leave it because we've got
too much in debt again
we've overly financialized yet again
because humans love leverage above all
things it's kind of sex and leverage are
the two things that drive humans for
some reason
then
we adopt a new system which has been
around before but it keeps getting a
band called Fiat money Fiat money is
money not backed by anything
by the promise of the Central Bank
paying it so that's the dollar bill that
we all are familiar with and every
country in the world now adopted via
currency
but
as with everything
if you're really thirsty and I gave you
a bottle of water or sold it to you you
probably pay me 10 times too much for
that bottle of water
if I give you a million bottles of water
they're worth precisely zero to you
so scarcity has value that's Arts that's
cars that's almost anything
um humans value scarcity for whatever
reason we do
um and so if you're printing too much
money
you're creating less scarcity so yes
there's money everywhere
but the money has less value
so once you understand that
you say well what does it mean the
dollar hasn't collapsed it's kind of
where it was versus the Euro in the last
five years or whatever it is
and then you say huh
but my fifty thousand dollar salary
now can buy me much less shares in apple
Amazon Google Microsoft in fact units of
the S P 500 right I suddenly can't buy
as much since 2008 it's a fraction I can
buy like
a third of what I could
same with real estate same with gold
and then you're like huh
assets have suddenly got expensive they
haven't
the value of your savings has gone down
or your money
so you can't afford to buy assets what
is an asset an asset is deferred
consumption from the future
I buy a house
I sell it in the future I get to retire
whatever the the things are you know we
don't buy the s p because we want to
hang it up in our wall we buy it because
we want to sell it at a future date to
realize money
so that means our future selves in our
poorer that's essentially what this
means that's what currency debasement is
so Bitcoin comes along in 2008 in the
middle of the crisis it's kind of like
it was perfectly prepared for this and
said
Satoshi goes hey look at this
I can create an algorithm
that only creates so much of this thing
the Bitcoin
and it can never vary ever
so therefore this is scarcity that
humans can't [__] around with
now humans have this propensity to [__]
around with scarcity because they're
economically incentivized to do so
here they can't
so then they become economically
incentivized to own this asset because
it's scarce and it cannot be changed
because it has this consistent supply
curve and a limited number
so Bitcoin becomes this great store of
value
and it would look like gold because
Gold's a good sort of values work for
thousands of years but Bitcoin has this
other thing to it it's a network which
gold isn't and it's technology which
gold isn't so we have use cases and the
benefits of building a network so
suddenly it goes up exponentially in
price
roll onto 2015
and suddenly somebody's looking at the
blockchain
and they start saying
imagine if these bits on the blockchain
which is where you record the ownership
of something in Bitcoin it's Bitcoin
itself
what happens if we could put contract in
there
because humans live off contract so
everything is basically a Contracting in
our legal terms
and that was the rise of ethereum it
became a platform where you could
programmably change the blockchain not
the attributes of the blockchain you
couldn't remove anything off that ledger
but you could change the little holding
buckets and say well it can look like
this could look like that it can adopt
to this
and those things were verifiable as well
so they couldn't change
so this created a theorem which became
the platform so if you think of Bitcoin
as this store of value this very
pristine beautiful thing
then you think of ethereum as also a
very beautiful thing but it's a much
broader application because it's like
programmable money
yeah there's one concept that I want to
nail down here and if you think I'm
crazy let me know but
when I think about so I've worked in the
inner cities a lot and you begin to
realize wait a second the generational
poverty is a mindset knowledge problem
far more than it's a money problem
because they managed to pass on a
likelihood of being poor and so when you
think about okay well right now in the
in the US for sure and I would imagine
most of the western world that your ZIP
code is the number one predictor of your
future success more than your IQ which
I'm just not willing to live in that
world but that's a really fascinating
phenomena and when you begin to ask a
question how is that possible so you
have an extraordinarily smart people
that regardless of their IQ were going
to be trapped in a poverty cycle why is
that
and some of it has to do with what a guy
named Jeffrey Canada discovered in terms
of the language centers of your brain
and if you're not hearing enough words
when you're an infant just the language
centers don't develop well and you can
have a hard time interviewing for jobs
and climbing the sort of traditional
corporate ladder in that way and then
they just also help you with
communication but the other part is what
is what I call your frame of reference
what do you believe to be true about
yourself and about the world and one of
the ideas that fails to get passed on in
that poverty cycle is an idea of
ownership and once you understand
ownership now you get into that cycle
that you're talking about where you can
you can sell something in the future
because you own it today and you
hopefully Buy Low and then sell high and
that really is like just the dead simple
equation and I just to plant a flag that
we'll come back to and hold all these
ideas in my head you had mentioned
earlier as like a throwaway that a lot
of wealth was generated in the collapse
and of the economy and so I want people
to understand that this is a game and I
don't mean that in any any sort of
derogatory way but it has rules and if
you understand those rules there's
always an opportunity especially in
moments of disruption and we're living
through this incredible technological
disruption right now okay so back to
this idea of ownership so when I look at
Bitcoin what I see is something that I
can own right there will only ever be 21
million of these now like anything as
Noah you you've all Noah Harari says
even money is just a story right it's a
fiction that we all tell and it only has
value when we agree that it has value so
Bitcoin has that same sort of Achilles
heel that if tomorrow everybody stop
believing that owning that has any value
then it would have no value
but we have this Ultra scarce thing that
the last 10 years have proven people
believe has value and you can own a
piece of that and as we go if it is true
that more and more people will pour into
this digitization of
economic value essentially then that
those 21 million units are going to
become hyper scarce and Hyper valuable
now the great news is that you can
fractionalize it so you don't have to
own one you can own some tiny tiny tiny
uh fraction of it but now you you have
ownership so you're able to buy
something now that you can own as it
appreciates in value and then you can
sell it later and so it becomes just
this buy and wait game that real estate
maybe still is but that's why real
estate has worked over time you owned it
you could also live in it which is
certainly advantageous and then the
expectation was that it would go up in
value when I think about
ethereum
at first I was like okay I like how much
you know we haven't even talked we
haven't named metcalf's law you've
talked about it but this how you can
value something based on its Network
adoption curve and so I could see there
was something going there and then when
I got into nfts I realized I just had to
buy a bunch of ethereum to use it and so
I was like okay well wait a second if
I'm over here like scrambling just to
buy it to spend it I'm like this is me
being able to buy into the dollar when
it's like new and nobody's sure if we're
going to use it I thought whoa I would
take that opportunity so that's how I
see the difference in the two one is
just sort of straight ownership of
something and then one is like well I
know people use this and because people
use it and there's controls around the
supply that the odds are that it will go
up in value appearance kind of like
owning a part of the internet
it's
as you said I mean
everybody who has to use ethereum
basically that uses this crypto rails
unless you're just in the Bitcoin world
but everything that we've talked about
and everybody will have even if you're
not very familiar with the space will
have heard the term defy or nfts or
tokens basically most of that is still
being built on ethereum and as you said
the network so what is this metcalf's
law that you and I have referred to
metcalf's law is
it really started to become understood
in the 80s and then much more so as
mobile phone networks started these
giant connected networks right because
digital technology allowed networks to
connect before it's humans we couldn't
connect with each other in the same way
so networks connect with mobile phones
suddenly they explode in value you know
all these phone companies huge companies
and if you added them all up around the
world they'd be worth tens of trillions
probably we just don't even think of it
in those terms because they're
fragmented Networks
then the internet comes along this free
network and everybody Builds on top of
it and they create network effects like
the most classic example is Facebook
Facebook connects us with friends and
family and in exchange they get your
data they sell you adverts and they so
you've got a bunch of people using it
a bunch of businesses now building on it
and this advertising monetization
structure shareholders get rich the uh
you know you and I get to
unfortunately meet somebody from
University that we don't want to talk to
that we met 20 years ago and we're now
connected with again you know it's that
but the network that ethereum and
Bitcoin does is different you're the
owner of the network and the user
so as a user like you said with the nft
you're actually owning a share of the
network itself
so everybody uses it owns a part of it
but therefore if the Network's gonna get
used a lot you're all going to get rich
and the value of the network is going to
go up massively and the more people
built into connection so the metcalf's
law is not only just the number of nodes
either number of users but how much they
connect with each other well you're
seeing it because there's nfts and
there's D5 and there's all of these
applications or the store of money
aspect these things all together and
then there's the linking of all of these
like chain link or you know some of
these other protocols um polka dot
they're linking all this ecosystems
together so I can send you a dollar
instantaneously and we have no idea
whether it went on bitcoin rails xrp
rails ethereum rails and guess what we
don't care
I promised you a dollar you want to get
the dollar instantaneously that's
interoperability that's all coming
so this is what ethereum is about it's
the magnitude of this network where
everybody's developing everything on top
of it and its scarce Supply so it's
seeing an even faster adoption rate than
Bitcoin now and for for the reasons that
seem pretty clear because it has more
use cases than currently the Bitcoin
blockchain does doesn't mean Bitcoin
blockchain can't in due course
but right now there's a lot more use
case in ethereum it's super exciting
do you think that Bitcoin would need to
do something like that in order to
retain its value proposition no I think
it's value proposition stands Above All
Things it is pristine it's pure it is
what it is
um and you know the way it's so
impossible to change any of the
attributes of Bitcoin makes it a bit
clunky
and that clunkiness is its beauty
it is so secure it's the most secure of
all protocols so let it be what it wants
to be now people are building things
like the lightning layer which allows
you to do lots of fast payments over the
top maybe that scales maybe it doesn't
doesn't really matter that store of
value for every person to think of
like it's owning a piece of Manhattan
real estate at low prices
that's never going away
not in the conceivable future because
humans have now said it has value and
it's being adopted very fast so no
ethereum is a very different thing it
doesn't compete that's how I like to
think about it and unfortunately when
you go online people will tell you well
it's competing and it's not as good you
have to ignore all of that and look at
the whole Space overall and say and just
be honest saying we don't know where
this is going to be in 10 years time
and like you say so therefore I can own
three of these things and probability is
I'm going to capture a large part of
this and maybe I'll adapt in due course
and so yeah one thing sorry go ahead
yeah so it's it's don't over Force The
Narrative just be broad be open
and always be learning as you as you
rightly said because we don't know this
is all new and it's happening at
lightning speed
yeah that's the thing that I I am
certainly most attracted to with you and
the way that you are and seems to be
something that people Echo a lot about
you is you're very open-minded
is your open-mindedness the reason you
have been successful or is it a response
to the struggles of getting to where
you've gotten in your life
I you know it's I think it's part of
it's my background
you know my father's a first generation
immigrant from India my mother's a first
generation immigrant from Holland they
met on a blind date in Birmingham in the
UK I've lived in India I've lived in
Spain I've grew up in the UK I've lived
in the Cayman Islands I've traveled the
world
um so it forces you to be open because
you've got different religious
backgrounds there you've got different
massively different cultural backgrounds
um all of this stuff forces you to be
open-minded so I'm generally open-minded
by Nature just because of that and macro
investing
is all about being open-minded to other
possibilities
so once you learn the trick that it's
okay to say you don't know but I think
this might be how it plays out so you're
thinking what's known as probabilistic
terms then for that to happen for you to
say look I think there's a you know
there's a 80 chance that Bitcoin over
the next five years is going to 250 000
that's a reasonable odds
what's the 20 chance that it doesn't
okay so you need to open have both of
those things in your mind at any one
stage and be assessing them I learned
that from the book
uh
uh I think it was
the Alchemy of Finance by George Soros
who was probably the most famous of all
of the macro investors
and he would talk about this a lot that
you have to have these kind of logic
trees of probability trees
and once you understand that you can
even bet against yourself which is
really hard to do and I can't do it but
some of the best Traders can be you know
long the s p they think the s p is
rising but then they think the odds of
it falling are getting higher and they
start selling against themselves it's
like it's it's very hard to do
but that kind of investing teaches you
to keep an open mind because you're
looking at the whole world
and you have to know that we don't know
the outcome anybody who tells you that
they know what's going to happen
it's just a fraud
it's just the open mindset I don't know
but I think and this is why I think
that's all you need to do that's
open-minded in a nutshell admitting that
you are fallible yeah I think that that
is extraordinarily smart um one thing
that I've noticed about entrepreneurs is
the most successful are the ones that
are able to hold competing ideas in
their head at the same time and you so
when I'm teaching entrepreneurship one
thing that I talk about is okay you have
to have this narrative so you you have a
goal you're trying to get there you know
where you are there's a Chasm between
where you are and your goal your goal is
probably uh you know skate to where the
puck is going to be so it's something
where you're making a bet about how
either culture is moving or technology
is moving and then you have to create a
narrative that says this is how I'm
going to go from where I'm at to there
and what that narrative does is it it
Smooths out some of those like leaps of
faith that you're gonna have to make in
order to get where you want to go but
then you know bringing this back to
somebody in the finance world that I've
learned a lot from Ray dalio
where he had that just catastrophic
learning event where he realized you
know we had all this conviction about
something that was happening in the
market and he ended up being wrong and
it just obliterated his company and he
realized okay you can believe you're
right but you have to hold open in your
mind how do I know I'm right and
constantly be looking for disconfirming
evidence so it's like I tell people you
have to have all this conviction you
have to be able to lead with conviction
you have to be able to go into something
believing this is going to work my
narrative is true that's how I'm going
to cross this Chasm to get to my goal
but [__] you better have open in
your head this idea of I have to
challenge this narrative I have to
constantly look for the the ideas and
reasons why I'm wrong and if you can't
do both race forward with conviction and
constantly battle test that idea you are
in trouble and that's why being an
entrepreneur is so damned hard
that Narrative of Entrepreneurship is
start thing in garage borrow money off
parents or start it on your credit card
three years later billionaire
right that's the narrative and then you
write your book on on how I manage my
company right that's actually not true
the best book ever written on this is
Ben Horowitz is the hard thing about
hard things
what you have to do is Battle both your
assumption as you say
and test it endlessly you have to be
paranoid excessively paranoid but still
confident in that you're right
and you also have to accept the risk of
failure because the moment you accept
the risk of failure which is very high
in startups you'll stop hedging against
it once you stop worrying about failure
as the narrative you tend to attract it
it's a really difficult thing people who
fear failure Above All Things tend to
fail more
people who don't look at failure and
just look at the Moon shot tend to fail
too it's the people who can see failure
as a wolf behind them
and the testing of the ideas but still
having the conviction and maybe changing
past because the wolf is catching up
they tend to fail less but it's hard
makes you feel sick you don't sleep at
night and that's you know the beginning
of Ben horowitz's book
basically is two pages of what that
feels like it's called the struggle
and that the struggle is probably the
most profound two pages in all of
Entrepreneurship and it's true and it's
hard
that's a great book
um so going back to investing I want to
lay out for people that might be new to
this they're not seasoned investors
the idea of dollar cost averaging was
extraordinarily comforting to me
um and I'd love to go into what it is
why it's useful and whether you think
that applies to what's happening in
crypto so there's a mythology of
investing the mythology is investing is
hedge fund manager George Soros
spots the opportunity gets in at the
right price makes a fortune
the reality is most people have no idea
where the price is going over a short
term
so what happens is you buy something you
put all your money in you've saved up
your 5 000 bucks you've put it all into
Bitcoin Bitcoin full 50 you panic you
sell it
you feel terrible Bitcoin goes back up
again you feel even worse now you can
scrape together you know you've you've
lost you know half of your money now and
then you've you you you keep compounding
these errors right it's called Market
timing and Market timing is
extraordinarily difficult you know I I
do some Market timing
because that's been my job and 30 years
I've done more than my 10 000 hours a
lot more than my ten thousand hours and
that doesn't make me very good at it
either I'm not bad at it in long-term
investing I'm terrible at short term
so what is dollar cost averaging well
the cost averaging is basically what
everybody does with their 401K the
problem is with 401ks or retirement
funds is nobody cares about them
you don't know what's in it you have to
have no ownership you just put some of
your salary away and it goes in this
mythical thing that you probably assume
won't be worth as much money as you hope
it is
that's what that's become
and you put it in every month
why do you do that well because you're
averaging all of the highs and lows over
time because markets tend to do this
so you're kind of indifferent in fact
you love it when it falls because you're
buying more units at a lower price
because your game is to own as much as
you can
at the lowest possible price
but if you don't know how to Market time
and 99.9 of people don't in cards and
shouldn't then you just average in over
time and Magic will happen you just
average a beautiful price over time and
had you done that in the s p or anything
else you'd make money now what's so
lovely about Bitcoin is it's not a
passive investment like your your
retirement fund because there are some
fun you can't access until later so you
kind of write it off and you you know
everybody's heard that it's never going
to be worth as much as it should be
anyway so it's become a bit of a pain as
opposed to something for this you own
you live and breathe that volatility and
you live and breathe those gains when
they happen and you will be like
wide-eyed I did it's my sister-in-law
forced her to do this I said listen I'm
going to make it easy keep just going to
open a PayPal account start that way
and she had some savings
um she could take out of another thing
she had like five thousand bucks 10 000
bucks and she put it in and we got the
timing relatively right so it shot up a
lot I think she got in about 13 000 in
Bitcoin wow yeah and it shot up a lot so
she's like well and then it falls a lot
and she's calling me up saying what do I
do should I sell some I'm like no you
keep putting in part of your paycheck
and after all of these Falls there's
several Falls she starts to really
understand and when they start falling a
lot she starts doubling the amount that
she would have normally invested
and now she's taught herself to invest
next thing I hear oh when I put some
ethereum
and this is how I'm dealing with that so
she's now looking at two different
things and she's now thinking about the
ass allocation what's going to
outperform ethereum she knew nothing
about this stuff this is a year and a
half and she now understands because of
that dollar cost averaging and taking
ownership that you exactly as you said
once you actually own something that
401k you don't actually really own it's
like some other guide or something with
it and hopefully he makes money this is
you you're taking responsibility for
your own finances that's so empowering
one thing that I think is really
important that I haven't heard people
talking about and just because my mind
is so simplistic when it comes to
investing
is I look at the stock market and I've
got a money manager and like all that
and she's trying to explain to me puts
and calls and all this I'm like oh this
is so [__] confusing I don't want to
think about this I want to go run my
business and so I yeah I just never
wanted to get on the phone and talk
about it it was just too complicated
part of the glory of what's happening
right now in Bitcoin is if you stay or
crypto if you stay sort of at the top of
the ones that have the most sort of
crowd validation because you can get
into the deep Weeds on what's going on
in all coins but if you just stay at the
top which has massive crowd validation
and you go okay I'm gonna buy a bit of
Bitcoin I'm gonna buy a bit of ethereum
and then you learn like your sister did
about the volatility and like how to
ride that wave and to recognize and and
for anybody listening if you're new to
this idea
have a thesis you dollar cost average
based on your thesis so here is Tom's
overly simplistic thesis
that I believe that
technology is a one-way street that very
few people are in cryptocurrency right
now
I believe that over time it will take
over some massive percentage of uh the
financial system so let's say that it
goes to I don't know become a 10
trillion dollar asset so I can buy that
I don't it doesn't take an extraordinary
leap of faith it's at just below I think
one trillion as of the time that we're
recording this so I'm like whoa 10x my
money like that would be incredible okay
well as long as I believe in that thesis
I want the price to drop so when the
price drops I'm not panicking I'm like
yeah buddy because like you said now the
amount has gone down so when I first got
into this it was the height of the
Euphoria like Bitcoin was just going to
the Moon it was just insane and so I was
like oh my God I have to buy into this
and so I bought in I started dollar cost
averaging and the price is going up up
up up and I'm still dollar cost
averaging and I'm like oh man should I
be going faster like the price is going
high and I'm like no no dollar cost
average you never know what's going to
happen
and then boom whatever happened uh you
know I guess it was like a month ago six
weeks ago something like that it just
[__] went down like 30 40 and
I was like oh thank God I still have one
my thesis is still intact
two the amount of money I was willing to
invest I haven't hit yet so now at this
much lower price so what I am training
myself to be obsessed over is the the
break-even point so if my original
Breakeven point was let's say fifty two
thousand dollars for Bitcoin as that
came down and I kept buying in and
buying in and buying in now my
break-even point goes from 52 000 I got
it down to like 30 something
and so I'm like this is incredible so
now that we're riding that wave back up
and I'm telling my wife like we're up
this much in 48 hours we're up this much
in a week we're up this much in 10 days
she's like what like it's it's almost
impossible to believe and I'm very
careful to check that like the hey the
Euphoria is dangerous you have to be
careful you have to constantly Like the
Wolf is right behind you like you really
do have to be thoughtful but dollar cost
averaging based on a thesis that's the
way to go there's another thing I think
it needs to be said is
you're now faced with something that
really offers people enormous
opportunity you took a ten for one I
think the space over the whole Space
over the next 10 10 12 years is probably
a hundred X right that's a whole asset
class we've never seen that in history
in that space of time
but humans are humans we go back to that
fundamental flaw is we love Leverage
tell people what leverages for the the
leverages when you borrow money to buy
something
so let's say you had borrowed to buy the
original Bitcoin purchases
and let's say you put down half the
money
so basically at 27 000 or 26 000 you've
lost all your money
now Bitcoin hit that
you'd have been wiped out
um and you'd have had to pay somebody
and you'll have been liquidated and then
Bitcoin goes back up in price and you'll
have missed it all
that's what leverage does because it's
okay in a house because house prices
aren't very volatile so occasionally
once in a generation you get a 2008
thing where the house prices start
moving a lot and suddenly the people's
equity in their house wasn't enough and
everybody gets liquidated I.E the bank
says we want a money back
that's okay to take that risk if you're
cautious in housing in crypto this thing
moves around like this
it's predictability in the short term is
extremely low unlike housing
predictability
so just don't borrow money to do this
that's the if I can get that across then
you don't care if it falls to 26 000 or
10 000 because you can buy more units at
the lower price over time and you don't
care
and then when it's trading at 500 000
you'll have become extremely wealthy
it's as simple as that so if they raid
your if they put up your mortgage rates
you spend less in restaurants
if you if you find your food bills at
the supermarket are 30 higher than they
were
you spend less on something else right
that's not ever good
because it stops the price of goods
Rising so the price of goods moves
either because there's not enough Supply
which is what we've had a problem with
or it's because there's too much or not
enough demand
so if you've got something with
restricted supplies so let's think of
oil right now because of the Russian
situation
there is not enough oil for the current
demand out there so the oil price keeps
going up so you and I pay more to drive
our cars or to heat or cooler houses
so the only way of solving that one
because you can't get the Russian oil
back into the market is to make us buy
use less oil
so that may if you the price does that
automatically because it gets more
expensive we do it but if you can also
then just lower General demand for
things we'll drive our cars less we'll
catch less flights all of that stuff and
that lowers demand and therefore prices
because prices rising inflation
is evil for our savings because the
dollar in your bank account is worth
less than a year's time it's currently
worth eight percent less which is quite
a lot
and so it's it's that it's this weird
situation where we have to take the pain
we're told we can't buy as much and
we're forced into it by Rising our
mortgage costs and our food costs and
all of this stuff
um
and eventually
things will slow down people will be put
out of jobs a bit that kind of stuff and
then the overall Demand on the economy
comes down and prices come down so I
we're all collectively taking the pain
for this inflation that was created out
of a whole bunch of different things
from the pandemic through to supply
chain issues through to under investment
in Commodities through to the shift to
Green energy
um all of these things have created this
moment in time which is tricky
and you know if we relate it to for
example the crypto market
so why did crypto stop going up
well it was macroeconomic factors and
people like well what's that got to do
with crypto well really simple is it's a
retail based Market
and about sometime last year prices
started to rise and so people could
afford to dollar cost average less
so then there's less demand for crypto
and the price of crypto Falls it's as
simple as that okay so uh that all
sounds very simple and direct I think
that what I wouldn't have understood a
year ago obviously now being into this I
have a bit more of a frame of reference
but I like to think that uh what I'm
able to help people with is sort of the
101 of like how all this stuff works
it feels like
the I always thought of the economy as a
thing external to human forces in terms
of intentional human forces as I was
growing up now beginning to realize that
it it is either rightly or foolishly the
subject of a lot of human intervention
and so I would have thought perhaps
naively that the goal would be to let
the market determine like if people are
willing to pay more for oil gas whatever
then the price will rise to what people
are willing to pay and it just is what
it is and so inflation is going to be a
thing that happens occasionally it is if
your wages go up to match it if not
you're just getting poorer because you
can afford to buy less stuff with the
with your with your monthly paycheck but
why won't the market balance naturally
they're obviously you're getting poorer
but theoretically it can't just inflate
forever because people can't pay so
it'll inflate until the amount of poor
is like too much and then people stop uh
spending exactly and then it rebalances
and that's called demand destruction
it's exactly the same process so the
feds can engineer it by trying to raise
interest rates and it filters through to
our mortgages and other stuff
or the market kind of clears of its own
accord where prices get too much people
stop buying stuff prices fall back again
um so either way tends to work and we're
in this weird mess where
the Federal Reserve are doing it the
markets are doing it and we're having to
take all the pain in the meantime
and is it better to engineer this it
seems like we at some point crossed a
Rubicon and said we're going to engineer
the economy we're not just going to let
it run its course
given how well you understand the macro
landscape do you think that is wise or
would we be better taking a
laissez-faire way getting our hands off
of it and just letting the market do
what the market does
um
I generally think that the market is
better at doing it if you actually see
it you know from my perspective somebody
closely follows interest rate markets
and stuff like that
they did all of the tightening anyway
before well before the FED people like
you hear the expression the feather
behind the curve what it means is the
bond Market's already priced it
like interest rates need to go up to
slow down the economy because there's
too much inflation and the Federal
Reserve are trying to catch up I
actually think the markets do a pretty
decent job in the way that you suggest
prices rise eventually it gets too
expensive we stop doing it now there's
different equations that people fear is
when it becomes super entrenched in the
economy
and we all go to our bosses and go I
want to pay rise and everybody does that
at the same time that pushes up prices
further you get more wage Rises and
that's a you know a wage price spiral
that really has only happened in the US
really once which was
um in the late 70s early 80s when all of
the Baby Boomers hit kind of 30 years
old at the same time so if you think
when you go back to 30 you're kind of
settling down with somebody you're
probably thinking about buying a house
you're buying a car you know you've got
a job you're starting to earn some money
all of we had the largest group of
people in all history turning 30 at the
same time
and they all did the same thing and
bought the same stuff and that really
pushed up prices and that was at the
same time there was issues with oil
supply and other things so we had this
double whammy at the demand shock and a
supply shock which meant prices went
crazy but that's really only happened
once
Okay so we've got uh two mechanisms that
are working to adjust the economy you've
got people with their hands in maybe
it's better to not do it
um but nonetheless we've got the market
and we've got the fed or human
intervention yeah right so we're in a
really weird moment right now we've got
War happening in Europe I put that in
air quotes maybe I shouldn't but like we
we have War happening in Europe or at
least on the cusp of Europe
um and that's obviously there's an
economic fight going on between Putin
and Europe I've heard different things
about whether he's winning uh that
economic War but certainly given their
ability to export
um natural gas I think is their primary
export uh they're able go ahead yeah
natural gas and crude oil but Europe
relies on Russian natural gas okay so
you've got them able to disrupt the
market that way we're just coming out of
covid uh we had a ton of stimulus thrown
at the economy certainly here in the US
I imagine a lot of other countries did
that as well
so you've got that was pushing the
inflation narrative if I remember right
though you you'd been saying for quite
some time I actually don't think we're
going to have an inflation problem at
least not in the long term
um what is it that you saw that led you
to believe that and I think part of your
answer is going to be around bond prices
and if you can explain what it means for
the bonds who have priced that in
because I don't understand what that
means
okay so my view and it still remains
even though it seems pretty
unfashionable right now with inflation
at eight and a half percent my view
remains exactly what you talked about is
as prices go up
the economy slows down
for the exact mechanism and therefore it
becomes self-regulating and it becomes
that because people are quite in debt
and it's a very old population in the US
and Europe and elsewhere so if you raise
prices on your retired parents
they can't earn more money because
they've got their pension and that's it
so what happens is they have end up
buying less and there's a big cohort of
people
so that's why I think it automatically
over time
kind of self-corrects
but the other mechanism is the bond
market which is a fancy name for saying
interest rates the price that you and I
and companies and governments can borrow
so if it becomes more expensive to
borrow to think of your mortgage if
you've got a mortgage well then if it
comes more expensive to borrow then you
spend less
right so the so the interest rate Market
forces demand to come lower now let's
say you don't have a mortgage and you're
a renter well the person you rent from
has a mortgage so they will raise your
rent because of it which is why
everybody's feeling this pain now
feeling a bit poorer and that and that's
the issue that's here okay so bonds if I
understand them correctly
basically somebody's trying to raise
money so often this is a Government Bond
and so they're saying hey we want to
build a bridge or whatever and so they
offer a bond either at the municipal
level the state level the national level
I assume uh and so you can buy these
different bonds the government is
guaranteeing them so but my
understanding is that basically they're
going to give you a return on that money
so hey I'm loaning money to the
government and in return for that
they're going to give me some interest
rate so you said that that's though the
price of borrowing money but really I'm
lending money at least as I understand
yes everybody then
if the government can borrow it where is
it today let's say
two years they can borrow it two and a
half percent
so if I give I buy U.S government bonds
or
I'm getting two and a half percent
now that becomes what's known as the
risk-free rate because the government
can pay you back always
but then if I'm a bank
and Tom comes to me for money I'm gonna
say well I'm going to look at Tom's
credit rating Etc and I'm going to say
it's that two and a half percent plus
another one percent which is my my extra
profit for taking the risk
um and so different people will borrow
money at different rates
so it filters through so just because
it's the government it's actually what
everything is benchmarked off
um and so the riskier you are
so if you're just now a 30 year old in
your first job and you've only been
earning a you know a salary for a year
and a half
well you might be able to borrow money
but it's going to be a four percent over
the whatever the government borrows it
at because you're riskier or if you're a
startup and you don't have enough cash
flow well it's going to be harder than
that as well so everything's priced off
that which is why it's so important it's
probably the single most important
Factor within how economies play out is
the price of which money gets lent and
borrowed and well okay so there's a
couple of interesting things here so one
I think it's important to remember and
this is something that uh I find that I
always get the the hives over when
people act like the government makes
money the government doesn't make money
the government taxes people and gets
money from people that are productive
and are earning money so it's
interesting that you're reminding me
that
we the people are both the borrowers and
the lenders correct uh so that's very
interesting now who sets the bond market
interest rate
so it's
set at two levels
one is the what's known as the FED funds
rate
and that is the money that that is the
price of money that the Federal Reserve
will operate with the banking system
but that is for very short-term money so
it's very risk-free right because if I'm
if I'm lending to you for a month it's
not very risky
but if I'm lending to you for 10 years
well then it's riskier so you have a
what's known as
um well you have a interest rate curve
I.E the further out you go the higher
the yield generally is that's not always
the case ahead of recessions actually
switches around and I'll come into that
in a bit
so why is it why is the price of money
in the future
more usually than the price of money now
well because
potentially there's more inflation in
the future there's more uncertainty so I
want to make sure I'm being compensated
to get my money back and that basically
is what the bond market does all day is
figure out what's the future economic
growth and what's the inflation rate in
the future is there is there like a guy
doing that or no it's it's it's it's the
voting of crowds so there's a guy doing
it well there's a group of guys and
girls at the Federal Reserve who set the
price of money
but then it's really the free market
that sets the rest and nobody has a say
in it which is why when I talked earlier
about the Fed was behind the curve we've
just talked about the yield curve and
the yield curve had already started
pricing in lots of fed hikes I the cost
of money needed to go up to offset the
inflation
and the Federal Reserve hadn't raised
the cost of money yet so they're now
busy trying to do meet the expectations
of the market it's probably too late
because we've probably already slowed
down the economy anyway
so by too late though that doesn't it
doesn't sound like it's necessarily a
bad thing so we the economy has slowed
itself down the market is done what the
market is supposed to do so the FED is
coming in behind us now are they going
to create problems now by adjusting that
to late or
um
I think there is a narrative that says
that it's that the FED have to do this
but you and I don't borrow at fed funds
rates the Market's already changed our
mortgage costs or whatever
so I think the market does its job but
there's some belief that it has to be
driven by the fed and their fed funds
rate
um
so that is
I think more of a red herring I think
the free market does its job
however they have one more other thing
in their in their Arsenal and that is
balance sheet printing money we're
taking money out of the economy
and they have been printing money for a
long time to offset the pandemic and the
extra borrowing that was required I.E
when they print money they're buying the
bonds of the government so the Federal
Reserve are buying the bonds of the
government
so it allows the government to borrow
more without causing any problems
um so right now they're about to start
tightening quantitative tightening
people hear the terminology and what
that basically is a fancy word for we're
going to take some money out of the
economy
I'm not going to take money out or
they're just not going to put as much in
well if they stop quantitative easing
which is the first step which they've
done that's not putting any money in
extra money in when they do quantitative
tightening they take money out so if
there's a big pool of money sitting
there and they say listen we're going to
take five percent of that out every year
that less money around so what's the
mechanism so if they want to put money
into the system they buy bonds amongst
other things they buy assets but if they
want to take money out what database are
they updating I don't understand they
sell buns they sell the bonds that's on
their balance sheet so they have
trillions of dollars of this stuff
sitting around where they've stimulated
the economy
and then what they do is push it back
into the economy and the idea is it
pushes up wages or all the banks have to
buy these bonds now from the government
and so then they buy these bonds and
they've got less money left to lend and
do other activities with do the banks
have to buy the bonds
um there are mechanisms by which they're
essentially forced to buy the bonds now
interesting
so generally speaking it ends up on the
Banks
balance sheets and that makes money more
difficult because they've now put that
money into something right so they have
a finite amount amount of money to lend
the FED more or less forces them to buy
some of these bonds that they had
originally purchased so now the bank's
amount of money to lend has become less
which means they're going to scrutinize
the people that they lend to more which
means that they're going to raise the
rates at which they lend them I'm
assuming because they can okay man
money's [__] weird uh it is it is
weird but if you break it down to the
human element
I'm gonna lend you money when I've got
plenty of it
and if you're desperately in need of it
because you're going through hard times
you'll pay anything for it
and if you kind of
would like to to borrow some money but
aren't desperate you'll pay a lower rate
it's basically as simple as that
you know the transaction between two
people is the same thing
so if a mate of yours comes to you and
you know they're a terrible creditor but
he's a friend you're gonna have to set
an interest rate that maybe to make sure
that you get compensated for the risk
you're taking and if you don't have much
money because you're feeling a bit tight
yourself
you're either not going to lend it to
him or charge a bit more money because
you could have used that money for
something else or lending less and I'm
certainly going to be more scrutinous of
whether I lend it to him yeah okay so
that makes a lot of sense now you said
something earlier you actually said a
couple things I'm going to plant the
flag in the hope that I remember this
you slipped one thing in which was uh
that going green is part of the sort of
inflationary stress so that's
interesting I want to come back to that
um but first I want to talk about
um debt so you said that we've never
been as in dead as we are now or the
Baby Boomers just because of the the
size of the population even though they
came into a situation where they almost
couldn't lose with things like at all
time lows housing costs all of that
interest rates it was amazing great time
they Thrive Millennials come in it's the
exact reverse but even though they were
in such an amazing situation they still
ended up getting themselves
extraordinarily in debt I want to give
you a quote from somebody that you may
know his name is ralphal and he said
uh this is such a great quote humans
love leverage Above All Things sex and
leverage are the two things that drive
humans
uh so what what why why are we so
fiendish about leverage and what does it
do for us that makes it so intoxicating
so leverage allows you to borrow future
money
to use now
so at two levels is humans are terrible
we just want everything now
we don't want to work for it if I can
borrow it and buy that
Rolex watch of my new car right if we're
trying to meet our future expectations
of ourselves always that's what drives
humans
so that's why they use leverage and it's
the same with Investments
so they do it for purchasing purchasing
power
to bring that future expectations of
themselves have I earned enough money to
buy that car no but if I borrow money I
can get my future self here it's kind of
a trade-off because you're actually in
debt and now owe somebody you don't
actually own the car
you own the ability to use the car until
you pay that off it's the same with a
house really
um and the other point is for
Investments you know people love to
borrow money now because then you can
make a bigger investment now
but the trade-off is is what happens if
that goes wrong
then before you know you get a margin
call or liquidated and you know that's a
feature we see a lot in the crypto
markets for example that happens kind of
automatically so
humans just love this stuff because it
brings their future expectations of
themselves closer I could be richer I
could have more stuff than I deserve now
from my income
yeah so dicey and you had said in our
last interview don't do this on Leverage
and that was the one thing so I lived uh
the I'll call it the lucky side of
Leverage so
I forget what year this was probably
2006 so for everybody that knows the
drama that happens in 2008 in 2006 uh my
wife which is a whole another uh thing
about women and nesting and all of that
she convinces me to spend more than I
was really comfortable spending on a
house but this was like the height of
because this was the future expectation
of yourselves now saying we deserve this
big house yeah and I'll borrow some
money to do it exactly and uh so this
was when you could literally just they
didn't even like research you they were
just giving loans out like crazy and so
we got a variable interest mortgage and
I thought oh 100 within whatever five
years I'm gonna be making way more than
I'm making now I'm going to better
myself this is amazing and so I did and
as it turns out I ended up making way
more money than I had been making and so
all was well and we were able to
refinance and it was no problem but
obviously for the vast majority of the
world it was a bloodbath now because I
felt like whoa I I bet on myself yay but
like I realized only in hindsight how
risky it was and so now I don't [__]
with leverage at all I don't do anything
on Leverage like it terrifies the life
out of me I'm the same I'm I'm terrified
of Leverage oh my God and like even
Michael Saylor who I have just a
freakish amount of respect for
when I look at that he took on Leverage
to do the the Bitcoin buying now his
number was very low so we sell a long
way to go before Michael Saylor has to
worry about being liquidated but all of
that made me want to sit down and figure
out what does liquidation look like
because I didn't even understand like I
understood a variable interest mortgage
rate where hey at a certain date the you
know the rate of the mortgage goes from
whatever five percent to 15 and that's
going to be a much bigger payment that I
could understand but I didn't understand
liquidation so as it pertains to a
mortgage which maybe the easier one to
understand and once we understand that
then we can go to how people get
themselves in trouble with crypto but
what does liquidation look like if I
have the house and my interest rate
isn't going up because it's a fixed
interest rate how could I ever get in
trouble
you can get in trouble
if you can't pay your interest so let's
say the economy slows down and you lose
your job
now what seemed like a reasonable
payment suddenly becomes impossible
and then in arrears and then you get the
little tap on your shoulder which is
like I'd like that house back now
because you don't own that house we the
bank do
this is what people don't understand
with leverage you don't own that thing
you only own it when you pay it off
so that's what happens when you lose
your job you then can't afford to pay
your mortgage payments now there's a
difference between the US and Europe for
this
so the US you give the keys back to the
bank
it's not the end of the world in Europe
the debt stays with you oh God yeah
very different so it is they get the
house back and you still owe the debt
correct because the house is valued less
particularly when what you get what we
refer to as negative equity I you buy a
house for 300 Grand and it's now worth
200 Grand you owe the bank 100 Grand now
it's okay if you can still make the
payments and eventually you just pay off
the mortgage but the moment you can't
they're like
well you owe us 100 grand
and they take you to court and you carry
that and you go to bankruptcy
oof
and that's how um housing is rare in the
US
um most other leverage doesn't have the
same process most of that the leverage
get the tap on the shoulder saying I
want my money back
and uh you end up going to court and you
end up going bankrupt but you're never
going to lose the house as long as I can
make my payments even if the value of
the house changes because you get in the
bank could actually get into a pretty
dicey situation where let's say the
house was valued at 300 000 when I
initially bought it it drops down to two
hundred thousand if I'm making my
payments the amount of collateral could
have changed such that they're actually
not in a good position but as long as
I'm making my payments there's nothing
they can do right correct okay now when
we get to crypto it's different right
because I'm not making any payments so
what is it or am I making payments how
does leverage work in crypto
so leverage Works in crypto that you
have some Bitcoin and you want to borrow
some more Bitcoin
or some US dollars or whatever it is you
want to do
so you will pledge your Bitcoin
and your interest payment is collateral
that's collateral and your interest
payments or whatever they are
but what happens is if the collateral
Falls
and the exchange or whoever it is
or the D5 protocol says oh it doesn't
cover the amount you get liquidated
immediately there is no negotiation
no oh please no nothing just like boom
out and you take the loss because
they're saying hey you've reached the
point at which
the what you owe us the value of what
you owe us
has now been reached and so if I don't
take this back now I run the risk of it
dropping even lower and now I'm out and
I'm not going to let that happen so it's
like a house you can repossess
instantaneously correct
and now you're out of the market you
don't get a like if it dipped down even
like a penny it's gone and so now if it
bounced back up you're still done gone
out of the market that's right whoa okay
but you're you're never going to end up
owing because they're just gonna
liquidate you right at the moment
correct so when you go into the
financial markets like the Futures
markets
which is mainly for accredited or
sophisticated investors
it's not an instant liquidation and
that's terrifying
because suddenly something like the oil
price let's say you've you've bought
some oil Futures what that is is a is
leverage on the future price of oil
looks like you would do with Bitcoin but
oil sometimes can go down
10 a day
and before and because you've got
leverage before you know it you're
losing enormous sums of money they don't
liquidate you they call you up and tell
you you owe the margin
and you can get yourself in a huge mess
so Leverage is very scary the nice way
of playing Leverage is options
options are something definitely worth
people learning about and a lot of
people learned on Robin Hood because
then you're only putting up where you
can afford if you say I can afford to
lose a thousand dollars on this bet
it's basically like the instant
liquidation thing and you can only lose
the thousand dollars but you don't lose
your whole underlying position you just
lose the thousand dollars you bet on the
price of something going from here to
there by whatever date but that's that's
an options bet
yeah I don't know if I want to derail us
trying to really wrap my head around
options uh I have tried many times it
you have an option to buy or sell is
that the idea correct you have the right
not the obligation
um is the official terminology but yeah
you have an option to buy and sell
now the amount of money that I put up is
that taken or did I not actually put it
up I only promised to put it you put it
up you put it up okay so you can write
it there it's locked in the system so
boom they'll lose anything more than
that got it but Futures so I remember
um I don't remember what platform it was
on but this was like a Wall Street bets
thing on Reddit and there were people
kids that just got in way over their
head they ended up owing like you know
75 000 and they killed themselves
and I remember thinking what the hell so
what are you doing in the futures
that can get you in that kind of trouble
open-ended losses and it's leveraged so
you can put a thousand dollars down you
can get ten thousand dollars of exposure
and if the thing Falls 20 overnight
You've Lost Your thousand
plus another thousand
like that
and it's open-ended if it goes down
again and you still haven't met your
Margin Call
he lost another thousand before you know
it he's entirely wiped out and that's
the problem because when you've got when
you borrow 10 times a 10 fall is wiped
out your initial margin the the bet you
put but in the options Market it doesn't
because that premium is all you put in
you can't lose any more
and it can and it has a time so let's
say it's three months so even if it
falls below and is worth nothing it's
still in existence and maybe it comes
back again three months later you're
okay still so it's it's just a different
way of doing
risk guys you must get into crypto and
they were all sort of paralyzed by
indecision so I said look my wife and I
are going to help you open the account
and then we will give you money the only
catches you must spend it on crypto and
so we did all of that and then watching
everybody's like emotion flip when the
price started dropping and for a minute
I was like wait do I have like enough
conviction in this and I was like okay
technology is a one-way Street I believe
that this is going to digitize as a NASA
class I will watch and pay attention if
something new comes along but for right
now yes it all holds and so I was like
okay and so I just kept investing and
then as I like I said I I started
focusing on that that break even number
pulling down my cost of Interest there's
a name what's the name of that like your
the point at which your average buy-in
cost of Entry perfect so watching that
come down became like my obsession and
then so I start getting that low and I'm
really excited and I keep buying in and
then it flips again and it starts going
back up and so now I'm like okay I've
ridden the wave I know what it feels
like when it drops I know how you still
have to like check your thesis 100
dollar cost average 100 but now because
I did that now I'm getting the gains as
it swings back up and I'm still in a
Range that's what's crazy there's so
much money to be made even just by
taking advantage of that like momentary
volatility now I'm not I am a macro guy
in the making I think only long term I'm
not going to sell as I keep telling my
wife as fun as it is to watch it go up
everything is noise sub five years so
like just don't even think about it I
it's quite funny because I'm you know
I've become pretty public in all of this
space
and I've got a very clear idea of what
where I think it's going and how it's
going to go so I have my thesis
and
when everything starts falling apart
like the market starts moving
hey I look like how's it moved in the
past and it it's done similar things
right and I've been telling everybody
who's ever gotten to the space
you need to expect a 50 correction in a
bull market
and you might see a 70
bear Market
and over five years you'll have still
made more money than you could imagine
so you have to accept those things so
this thing starts tanking Bitcoin starts
first then then ethereum rolls over
later and it also and it's all down 50
percent
and
I said I've got this weight on my
shoulders I've got all of these people
have been following me I have been
telling them this but you know this
message with your mind and I pick out
the one chart that matters to me which
is the adoption chart
is anything that's going on with China
reminding and this and that changing the
adoption curve or not
not so then as you said the Relentless
rise of Technology continues so la la la
I can't hear it so I turned around to my
wife and I'm like
you know
you know it's Fallen 50 everybody's
freaking out and she just looks at me
and goes you are all so ridiculous she
said you said you should expect this now
it's happening everybody's freaking out
and she just walked off and said baby
she just said don't say stupid and
walked out of the room
and I'm like yeah
just you know Twitter is somewhere
sometimes or read it or whatever
whatever form you're on is sometimes
your enemy
um and sometimes you just need to turn
that off now it's been the same with
investing in Amazon
right the reason Bezos is so wealthy
because he's probably one of the only
people in the world who had Amazon
shares from the beginning never sold
them because it went down 95
oh in 2001 too
it's had several 60 Falls
and it still made him the richest man in
the world this is what exponentiality
looks like and for people who are a
little more savvy there's a magic trick
to everything to keep your sanity in
this because this stuff goes like this
and then it does this and
is you'll see there's like free free
chatting almost on every platform now
trading view something like that
just change the scale to a log scale
logarithmic scale and what you'll find
is like you look at Facebook it goes
like this you look at Amazon goes like
this right and it always feels like I
can't buy this this gone up too much you
know that that that fear that you had at
52 000 right that's real
you change it to a log chart and it's a
beautiful
trend
and you realize it's all noise and yes
those movements can be 50 60 percent
but it's just moving in that lovely
little Trend Facebook has done that
since 2012 never deviated
nor has Apple nor has Microsoft nor is
Google
none of these have not even Tesla and
nor has Bitcoin and noise ethereum
they're all Network effects and they're
priced in the same way they're all
exponential in nature which we can't get
our heads around until you put it on a
log chart and it makes you calm down
what what does the log chart do I've
heard the phrase but I I honestly don't
know what that means the scale so
normally a scale would go like a Bitcoin
chart well because it starts really low
it might start like ten dollars
and then it's got to go up to
65 000.
so suddenly you're seeing a move a
thousand dollar move
um it looks small but before it was big
so what happens is it squashes the
charts
because most of the price action has
happened from let's say ten thousand
dollars to sixty five thousand so you
keep getting this looks like this all
the time and so this is just by
stretching out the timeline no so what a
log chart does is change the scale where
it doubles every measure so it goes ten
dollars a hundred dollars or it goes 10x
let's say ten dollars a hundred dollars
a thousand dollars a million dollars
what that little trick does
is smooth out all of this issue
so
you'll get comfortable when you look at
it just to realize that and look at the
scale look how it's changed versus the
other scale and you'll see from that
it basically compresses all of this it's
the same as if you do used percentages
because you know a 5 000 Point move now
in Bitcoin is not the same as a five
thousand Point move when it was at five
thousand it would have been a hundred
percent
and now it's not now it's like whatever
it is today 10
so it's it's it's changing that
um and that that really really helps
it's interesting so you're getting into
the psychology of all this which I find
utterly fascinating of
it doesn't matter what you look at it
matters what you see so you're looking
at this chart you have to be very
careful because if you they most of the
charts at least I use uh coinbase Pro so
it defaults to like a really short time
period And so it's just like oh my God
like this is all over the place why do
they do that because it makes you trade
more
yes yes yes
no doubt you're like oh my God I need to
sell I need to buy what do I need and
then you zoom out and put the The
Five-Year chart or ten year chart and
it's like oh this is noise
that's exactly what it feels like and
I've heard people talk about that I
think it's very Sage advice when you're
feeling stressed zoom out like literally
zoom out the timeline so that as you
broaden out and it's like okay okay okay
this all gets very smooth and easy to
handle now
the best way to look at somebody's
conviction around their thesis is to see
what their percentage allocation of
their net worth they have in said uh
thesis so when I started in crypto I was
like okay one percent I'll I'll get to
one percent I just don't want to be a
fool it's sort of schmuck Insurance then
as I got to one percent I was like well
this feels pretty good I'm gonna go to
two percent and then that's where I was
about when it started to fall and so I
was like okay well here's my opportunity
to buy in thesis is still intact why
don't we go to five percent and so now
I'm like well five percent feels pretty
good I'm thinking about ten percent so
what is your allocation of course I know
this punch line but it'll be interesting
for people that don't know so I am
this is going to sound weird when I tell
you but I'm actually risk averse
so I own
a few properties
myself and I live in them so I don't
rent anything out you know these are
this is my bank is lifestyle
so and I and I like to live in nice
places
so that I don't consider consider money
that I'm investing or doing anything
with that's just buried in lifestyle my
shares in real Vision as an entrepreneur
that could be worth nothing they could
be worth gazillion that's not part of it
so what really matters is your liquid
net worth the money that you've got
available to invest
and I'm 100 in crypto
and I feel like I'm underexposed
so maybe I didn't start with enough cash
um that I should you know I should have
had more in cash you know
um as opposed to in real estate or
whatever
but
it's a hundred percent I feel massively
underexposed now why can I do 100
because I have income I have numerous
sources of income so I've always got
money coming in if I lost
well you're never going to lose 100
because I've got no leverage so it could
go down 80 and it'd be back to roughly
where I bought it so I'm kind of safe in
this crypto space now I can't really
lose money
but I've got cash flow coming in
so even if I did lose it it's not gonna
change my life
and in fact cash flow coming in gives me
an ability to buy at lower prices
so I'm structurally set up to take up
take advantage of the biggest
opportunity I've ever seen
um and I'm comfortable with that now I
don't know what percentage of my total
net worth it is because I don't think of
total net worth as total net worth
because those are things that are never
going to change you know my my beach
house and it'll came and I sell it and
buy something else not invest in
something else with it that is the
answers lifestyle is the answer to
everything right we don't do anything
else for any other reason I don't think
or you shouldn't to be rich is not is
not a future state to have the lifestyle
that you want is the future State and
that can be anything you can live on a
shack and a beach in Nicaragua and be
the happiest man in the world go for
that so that's what I care about but
liquid net worth yeah everything and I
feel under invested and desperate to you
know waiting for the next quarter when
more income comes in to put more in
because I feel underinvested at all
times that's how that's how much
conviction I have I've and I've never
done that before ever in my entire
lifetime have I ever taken a bet like
this
um I want people I want to make sure
that they hear though that you've got
the income coming in that this is not a
leveraged trade I think that that's very
very smart I don't have debt this is
my pool of investable savings it's my
entire life savings
because I don't count the house and all
the houses and stuff is there
so I can't be forced out of it
I can't lose everything
and I've got an income that tops it up
so I can buy more or if I get the BET
wrong and it doesn't go anywhere for
five years I can get I can buy other
stuff I can cover my cost of living
everything is fine so yes it sounds and
I call it irresponsibly long
but it's actually not very irresponsive
it's actually quite responsible it's
just a very high conviction bet
yeah this is such a fascinating time and
I'm very aware and it sounds like you
are as well I'm very aware of okay I'm a
by internet standards I'm a somewhat
public figure there are people that
listen and I I feel this obligation to
tell people you you just have to be
aware of what's going on I don't trust
my understanding of investment
strategies enough to tell people hey go
do exactly this but I like when I really
think about the things that would mess
with my head it would mess with my head
if cryptocurrency ends up being what I
think it's going to be and I didn't tell
people to at least research it because
what so my wife and I end up getting
just fantastically wealthy and you have
this moment where I know you've dealt
with this where it's like do I buy an
island and retire and just you know
check out and sip my ties in the beach
all day
or do I recognize that what really
matters is meaning and purpose and so I
want to do I want lifestyle I'm with you
on that but at the same time I want to
matter and I want to help other people
and so then you come into the game and
you go okay who am I going to help and
because of our background we had about a
thousand employees that grew up in the
inner cities and you just see what a
devastating force it is you come to the
realization I talked about earlier which
this is a mindset problem and so we
start thinking about okay how are we
going to address this you get in you
realize people's monies towards people's
attitudes towards money and that becomes
one of like the key areas where I want
to help people so originally it was all
about giving people an entrepreneurial
mindset so they could control their life
and I really believe in that and I think
that when you think which to me is just
taking ownership of your life and
recognizing when you have a company the
buck stops with me I have to figure this
out there's no way to hide because I'm
either going to be able to pay my
employees or I'm not like there's
there's just no no [__] in that and
so you realize okay the Market's always
going to win I have to figure out how to
run this company well so that I can pay
everybody so super powerful mindset now
crypto comes along and I'm like oh my
God this really is this it is a moment
where all the people who are angry
frustrated disenfranchised this is your
[__] shot and I heard you say this
this is so powerful thinking about the
words you said or giving me the chills
where you said this is the first time
where the retail investor so the average
everyday person gets to front run
meaning go before the big institutions
it's always been the other way around
the big institutions take the like cream
off the top for themselves and then all
of us get the leftovers and this is the
first time where it's flipped so if you
think about Robin Hood or any of these
big IPOs that have just happened what
they're basically doing is there's a
bunch of VCS who've made a thousand X
100x whatever the number is and I've got
obscenely rich investing in something
that you're not allowed to invest in
because of the law because you're not an
accredited investor and in fact the
system's so set up that you'll never
ever going to be shown this opportunity
and then
at the very end when the asset's gone up
so much
they then
list it on the New York Stock Exchange
or the NASDAQ and dump it on retail
when the best gains have been had now
within that there's always going to be
an Amazon and a Microsoft and an apple
but your chances are getting in at the
higher price so you're the 52 000 guy
and not the averaging at 30 000. your
probability of success is always lower
than those guys
so the system is against you
in this the institutions are being held
back by regulation and can't do it
but we're not
and we know that they have a lot of
money because it's actually our pensions
and so we they're going to put our
pensions in this in the end well we
might as well make money from them
coming into the market later
and driving up prices ridiculously
because that is what's going to happen
once this ETF is listed every Raa in
America is going to be advising
their clients to buy the Bitcoin ETF and
the ethereum ETF and it'll drive another
half a trillion dollars of price
appreciation you know this is all coming
um and it is the opportunity and I've
tried to set everybody up like you
I've had that sense of responsibility
real Vision was about that but it's also
a subscription model so I purposely give
ridiculous amounts of information out on
Twitter
that's free
subscription models because I need to
pay my staff and create a proper
business that has value but I give a
much out on free we give tons of stuff
out on YouTube and tons of stuff out in
the podcast and then with crypto I just
thought [__] it we're going to give the
whole thing away free so kind of real
Vision crypto is a free Channel we just
said we're going to get sponsors from
these big players because they're making
tons of money the exchanges and others
they can pay for everybody else to get
access so I can pay the staff for the
crypto stuff because it's that important
to me it's like guys I'm giving you
everything you need we did five
interviews a week with everybody in the
space and they're so good so there's no
excuse not to educate yourself it's all
there at first you go in there and go oh
I don't know what this is all about
that's okay you'll find the thing that
interests you and you'll find your way
in and then you'll go down the rabbit
hole but yeah I passionately believe you
know that
the future of everything is based around
Community you have a community in what
you do I have a community around what I
do
and part of community is the inherent
or the the inherent agreement that
you're all in this together
I'm not going to be extractive of you
and you're not going to be extractive of
me but together we can all benefit from
being part of this community
crypto is a community in its own right
and we're all benefiting from being part
of that we're all part of that Community
but I think that
that's why both you and I are very
passionately passionate Believers in
bringing everybody along for the ride
because everybody around us has enabled
us too to build this amazing Network and
do all of these things so they should
everybody should share and this is
something that you'll pick up from my
interviews I've been talking about a lot
all of this is going to get tokenized
too culture is going to become an
investment
the probability of there being a Tom
coin within five years is something like
yeah so I definitely want to talk about
that because I think you've got some
really fascinating ideas there before we
move on I I haven't talked about this
publicly but this idea of an accredited
investor so I don't understand why
people aren't rioting in the streets it
is the most obscene and it's
masquerading and so I'll explain what it
is to people you tell me because you
understand this a lot better than I do
tell me if I go straight anywhere so the
government is basically saying hey
you're not Savvy enough to invest your
money wisely you're going to get taken
advantage of so we're going to protect
you just by making it impossible for you
to do these early stage Investments
unless your net worth is a million
dollars or more it's something sort of
that basic and I remember when I crossed
that and suddenly my net worth was over
that and I was like but wait I'm not in
East savior when it comes to investing I
know how to build businesses and most of
my in your house so it's not like you've
got more money
it just so happens your house has gone
up because you bought it in a nice
neighborhood
it's ridiculous ridiculous and so I'm
like how how are people not complaining
about this like that's the one thing
that I sort of look around and go wait
like this is madness and you're allowed
to bet
so you can go to Vegas lose all of your
money and there's no regulation
but if you want to invest in a group of
startups or a single startup it's deemed
too risky by somebody
and a lot of that is a power grab by
Wall Street because what does that mean
it means you can't do it you have to
give it to somebody else
um and they can pull the money so then
you're not taking specific risks
and what that means is somebody on Wall
Street gets Rich at your
on your behalf because you're now paying
them fees that you didn't have to pay
that's the beauty of Bitcoin you're
basically a VC investor in the future of
money not Bitcoin ethereum even even
better you've got you're a VC investor
in the future platform of the internet
of value
and you're paying nobody any fees
dude let that sink in
like that's yeah it's really really
crazy and there's no Bank saying well
you have to do it through us if you want
to do this you can buy it and store it
on a hard wallet
and there's nobody involved that is the
power of what is happening here this is
two two this is true kind of distributed
power
within wealth creation that people only
dream of this is the system not being
against you but working for you for once
Yep this is this is the the chance it's
uh it's really exciting and the more you
learn about it the more you just start
freaking out like whoa this is really
custom designed of course it was I
haven't read the Satoshi white paper
which
um probably would benefit me I think
it'd be make it easier to communicate to
people but it is it's kind of like that
Ultra secure bank you were talking about
starting it's like somebody who really
sat down and thought how do we put the
power back in people's hands and make
sure that it's uncorruptable uh it's
it's really pretty phenomenal all right
getting into like this idea of
tokenization first if you don't mind
explain to people what tokenization is
and then we'll get into like where this
is all headed their heads are going to
be melting by now yeah this is how it
starts and in fact one sort of a quick
primer if they made it this far they
probably don't need it but uh here's how
Learning Works you start not even
[__] knowing the terms and so you
take the first step down the rabbit hole
you're like this is madness I don't even
understand the words people are saying
you start to get the vocabulary certain
words will jump out at you go look those
shows up now you begin to Cobble like I
kind of know what's going on then you
can like you said you pick that path
that you understand you go through so
that sense of like overwhelming
confusion a It's Perfectly Natural and B
in the beginning just find the words
once you understand the words that'll be
the key to unlocking things okay so with
that one of the words that we need to
Define is tokenization what does that
mean so remember we talked about smart
contracts smart contracts are this thing
that you can attach to the blockchain
and that contract can be any kind of
contract
so that brings up the word tokenization
because you can therefore attach
anything onto the blockchain because of
this contract
piece of art
fractionized real estate whatever
whatever
so Bitcoin okay that's attached on the
blockchain but now it can be other
things because the contract will say
well legally it has the right to this
so it starts off with people
conceptualizing about real estate
artwork other things Why Real Estate
this is a really powerful thing real
estate none of us can afford the 50
million dollar apartment in Manhattan
but that goes up 100 in two years unlike
something in Queens that goes up
20 in five years
so the rich dude's getting richer well
the poor are getting less well off the
rich poor divide
once you fractionalize it like you can
with Bitcoin
that anybody can earn 10 of their net
worth in a 50 million dollar apartment
we're all making the same amount of
returns the rich don't get richer we all
get the same if it goes down in price we
all go down in price that is what it
should be that is what tokenizing real
estate's going to do and you can do it
with tokenizing artwork so you're
allowing fractionalized ownership of all
sorts of things that is recorded nobody
can take it away from you it's written
and recorded on the blockchain
and on that ledger it's confirmed by
lots of people to say Tom owns this
piece of this real estate and nobody
else can take it okay that's genius
but then what happened was this massive
explosion this year in digital art
or just happened last year digital art
was where you'd start tokenizing
the recorded ownership of something
digital so people say digital art well
it's just a jpeg
well a JPEG has no scarcity
now it's the same with Photographic Arts
so photographic art has no real scarcity
until it's signed
or you have the negative
then it's priceless
that creates scarcity and I I collect
sign rock and roll photographs
um a music artist signed by famous
photographers now
because it has scarcity and I like that
um so
that applies with digital art too
because if you say there's only gonna be
one of this and it's recorded on a
blockchain it's called a non-fungible
token it's a token
then I can sell it to you and you now
have the rights to it
we have scarcity there's one
and this guy called beeple crates
I can't remember how many pieces of Arts
like 14 000 pieces of Art there's more
so he did 15 000 pieces of art which was
all into one jpeg
um which was 13 years worth of daily art
and all incredible
and then he sells it at Christie's or
Sotheby's
for 69 million dollars and everyone goes
oh my God it's the same when Damien Owen
um Banksy started selling graffiti art
and everyone's like this is ridiculous
and now suddenly everybody wants a
Banksy and it's the same when
um Jackson Pollock started spraying
paint and now everybody wants a Jackson
pot nobody believes in art until they do
and it's that same human system you
talked about once we perceive it's got
value it's got value that's how it's
going to be and we will trade it for
whatever it is so we can put digital art
we can tokenize it and own it
but that also means we can tokenize
things like IP rights so this video we
could tokenize and only tokenholders can
watch it
or there's advertising that comes
attached to it or whatever it is and
anybody who owns part of the token or
one of those tokens can get some of
those rights
so that means that music artists who are
getting screwed by everybody they lose
80 of their economics
by the ticket sellers the middlemen the
um music Publishers the record labels
the talent management business I mean
everybody including Google Facebook
everybody's taking money they're
bringing massive communities
handing them over for free and getting
back 20 of the economics it's terrible
but imagine now you can tokenize the IP
to a song so every time it's ever used
it directly attributes to you so let's
go back to that people
um example he cleverly put into that
contract that every time it changed
hands
he gets paid a commission 20 percent
that never happened to artists so Damien
Hurst every time he sells stuff he gets
the money beginning the gallery takes 50
percent
and then every time it trades he never
makes a penny again
but this people will make money forever
and so will his family every time that
ever trades so it's like Van Gogh his
family always having
a share of that
so super interesting IP writes to songs
IP writes to all sorts of things video
in a digital age it could be anything
and then you think about okay well what
is where's this all going
well it's going to community
because Community is the new powerful
business model where
a group of like-minded people coalesce
around an idea a person a set of ideas
so if you go back you talked about
harare's book the other great book is
Jared Diamonds um Guns Germs and Steel
very similar kind of book
in that book he says he talks about
complex adaptive societies
human groups large human groups
how do you
how do you hold those people together
how you do that is basically you have a
leader
you have a mission you have a set of
rules
and then you usually have a value or a
money
and that's trivial religions it's true
of almost all groups
but what was missing in most religions
had the value part because it's like if
you didn't follow the rules and Follow
the Leader you went to heaven or hell or
you didn't get reincarnated whatever
religion you're a part of
in modern society like us you have a
leader you have kind of a mission you
have a set of rules and then you have
money
and money is what binds them together
that is your National accounting for
your Society
but tokenization
means we can all have a system of money
right Bitcoin is the system of money for
the people on the Bitcoin Network
but
I can have a system of money based
around real vision because we have
hundreds of thousands of users who all
want to gain value from the ecosystem
and want to create value within the
ecosystem but more obviously it's with
musicians and sports stars
you know if you're Rihanna
you have
you're the third largest social media
influence in the world after
Barack Obama and I can't remember who
the other who the next one was
so it's her and Bieber
she has
150 million followers whoa that's just
on Twitter
so her reach is something like 400
million people
on a daily basis
they all want to be part of the
community of Rihanna we saw that with
Lady Gaga on her little monsters
if you give them a leader
a mission
a set of rules and then a system of
money you've created an economy a
country a digital country
and that has value if you make your
Society successful
it goes up in value and you create more
GDP
so this is now us getting rich from
culture
we coalesce around this idea we create
the system of money in this rules
and then we look after our society if we
look after it our Network grows we bring
more people into the Rihanna Network the
value of our tokens go up Rihanna gets
wealthier
and the fans get wealthier
that is a whole change in the old world
it would have been Rihanna gets super
rich
all of these other people around her get
even richer
and the fans don't get anything except
some experience
that's the old Facebook idea the
shareholders got rich but the people who
use Facebook got nothing except abused
really
this tokenization changes everything we
can always
I look at the world as not a macro
investor I still see a hyper amount of
uncertainty and I want everybody if this
is your first time watching me I do not
consider myself a talented investor I
have always
um considered myself to be focused on
learning how to make money and that's
where I've been successful investing
money is is a big question mark and I'm
exploring that
um but I look at the level of
uncertainty right now and I am deeply
Gravely concerned about where we're
going uh when I look at what's going on
in Russia and the Ukraine that obviously
gives me pause but really more so China
potentially going after Taiwan if that
is
um jijuping has said that part of his
legacy is going to be the reunification
of China he's already got Hong Kong uh
Taiwan becomes the obvious next move uh
which is you know super nerve-wracking
are there big things like like that on
your mind to like hit the pause button
to wait to see how they play out or does
that not strike you as a big concern
um yes always obviously and you know
being a macro guy you're endlessly
reassessing the odds of different
outcomes all the time and there's
multiple outcomes it's not like I go
this is the outcome and I'm assessing
the odds it's like what could this
happen could this happen could this
happen is something changing that's what
you're doing all the time
so
so we know that there is the global
economy is splitting regionally that
there's a bunch of
let's go back the US dollar the US
economy is 25 of the world economy
it's as we said a huge amount of the
world debts 100 of GDP in debt the real
problem is 80 of all trade transactions
on Earth are in dollars
so the US is 25 of the economy but
dictates 87 of everything else that
happens
and the dollar goes up the dollar goes
down everybody pays the price if the
dollar interest rates go up everybody
pays the price and everyone's kind of
had enough of it
it was known as the global Reserve
currency but it's too big
as a percent to the global economy in
China Europe everybody said we need to
change this
and obviously having
control over money is power
so the Chinese want to create Regional
power
and that will happen there's virtually
no way we can stop it
and it's a matter of how you accept it
and how and
by what Manner do you want to go to
kinetic Warfare with them or do we just
continue with cyber warfare and
geopolitical struggles which has been
the way of you know our relationship
with Russia our relationship with China
for a long time
I don't think anybody wants to go to
kinetic War
just see what happened in the Ukraine no
we did anything
what they did was we'll sanction you and
we'll give you some weapons
but there it is a war in the heart of
Europe
and NATO didn't do anything
because they don't because the outcome
of getting involved was bigger
than getting involved
so
so let me ask then
what is China going to do to force so if
the whole world wants there to be a
balance that the U.S making up 87 of
global transactions is not something
that they're willing to do anymore
is it that China starts building a
um a Consortium of people that are going
to denominate in the yuan is that how
this plays out we don't know yet
obviously they'd like it but it's not
ready because they've got what's known
as a closed capital account which
meaning people can't get money out and
in easily
so if you think what China did they did
something called the one belt one road
policy
so they basically went around the world
and found a bunch of people who were
desperate for money and so we'll give
you money in exchange for us being able
to have some of your natural resources
or your access to your ports
now that hasn't been the most successful
strategy but it's in place and China's
footprint across Africa
um uh some of Europe all over even down
to the Caribbean
um South America is all over the place
from this one belt one road
so there was trading power that they
created they then created leverage on it
because if I lend you money you I own
you so that's what they did
and then they formed a like a I think it
was called the East Asia or the Asian
Investment Bank which was an idea to
create like an international monetary
fund for a bunch of countries in East
Asia and Asia overall to try and think
about
separating out these worlds where
China's the dominant trade partner for
Asia so why should the US dollar be used
I get that point why shouldn't
um so they've started splitting that up
then the next phase in what happened I
think was
when the US and the West essentially
froze Russian
Central Bank
assets
they basically said the same as Cyprus
said which is your money's not your
money
so if you're China you understand that
is now a winklink a weak link
so if you want Taiwan and again I'm not
geopolitical guy really but it makes
logical sense if you want Taiwan what
you need to do is just tangle yourself
from the global system we're already
splitting up Supply chains to detangle
these two groups because
they want to separate they're going to
get divorced
so they're trying to just sort out their
financial affairs move apart
and then
China could then think about this so
they need to separate themselves
financially economically and then you
can have Taiwan and then that's how
that's how that's the way it seems to be
moving and it hasn't really deviated
from that path for a long time
do you think it's fair to call this a
de-globalization
um
I think we have a tendency to look at
everything through Western eyes
what it is is a change of the
Global Order system
and yeah there's a great book called the
fourth turning I think I've recommended
it before everybody should read it this
is the full turning it's exactly what's
happening and that's not like
geopolitical Doom and Gloom it's
actually driven by demographics and the
changes and the opportunities and the
threats that happen over it
but what we're doing is we're moving
away from an old system into a new
system and I don't think it's going to
be a
one currency system
I think we'll just regionalize
is that the end of the world no we've
been to many times in Worlds like this
before
so
people think of it as cataclysmic
because it's changed from what we know
but really
is somebody in
Indonesia better or worse off if they
don't use the US dollar better off
you know are they better to borrow and
lend money with their main trading
partner which would be China better off
so
it's going to happen and it's just
splitting apart now does it end up in
two economic zones or three or does
somebody try and build an alliance of a
globalized currency
which is something that's been talked
about the bancor idea something that
better reflects global trade
maybe too I don't know but change is
happening
and you can fear it
but you're not going to stop it
yeah that's really interesting uh one
way to look at this is is a way that is
a media guy I think about this a lot is
there's this constant uh movement in
media where there's money to be made in
grouping things together and then
there's money to be made and decoupling
them and then there's money to be made
and bringing them back together and then
decoupling them and so it'll be
interesting to see if we start seeing on
a long enough timeline this sort of
globalization D globalization
globalization B globalization well
that's don't forget when the when the
the Brits with the predominant power
in the late 1800s
early 1900s before World War One the
world was pretty much the most
globalized it had ever been
well well one and two got rid of that
and then it created another
re-globalization
which was the rise of the US and now we
go to a de-globalization
these things are kind of normal
now how fractured do we get does Europe
fracture into you know into different
regions does Spain fracture into
different countries
is that on the table
oh yeah I mean the catalans want to
separate the Basques want to separate
you know we see this all over
those could happen or they may not
happen but over
geopolitical time spans
they will happen because it's always
happened you know Italy wasn't a country
and we forget this we just we'd look at
present State and assume that's the same
so these things do move
but it sells a lot of newspapers and
eyeballs and attention span to worry
over it
and most of the time you shouldn't
most of the time the opportunity is
there and we want to worry about the
existential crisis is very human again
one of those human traits is go back and
read literature over the Millennia it's
always about we're all gonna die
it's just
it's a survival Instinct within humans
it's like we're all gonna die oh my God
everything's terrible
and
yes
it is terrible and it can be terrible if
you're living in the Ukraine now
it's absolutely [__] awful
but as all of those people who came out
of World War II who end up having kids
things do go on
things do change over time
and so always at a bad times
eventually it's a good time since the
same with investing
that cycle
is pretty common
and it's a very human trait
so as you you had this big Forum you
know where
um different people are
deploying their Capital to what are you
doing are you waiting for a given
opportunity are you still deploying on a
dollar cost averaging basis into crypto
what's your strategy right now so I I
haven't dollar cost average generally
because you know I spent 30 years in
financial market so I I think
hubristically that I can time them a bit
better
so you know I have bought into big
sell-offs and I'm kind of cleaning up my
portfolio sorting it out getting ready
to do that
um to try and add as much as I can
and crypto specifically or crypto
specifically but I've also been buying
technology stocks for the same reasons
and I don't really care about yeah I've
owned bonds as a trade because bonds
once the economy weakens bonds tend to
go up in price
um so people you can trade things like
the TLT and they go up when yields fall
so you can make some profits from doing
that
um but generally speaking
I've been looking at these two Mega
themes because I really believe in them
and you know meanwhile as as we what we
talked about I'm increasing my
optionality by building businesses so
you know I built an asset management
business in the crypto industry so it's
um called exponential age asset
management and we the first product we
launched is a funder funds investing in
crypto hedge funds to allow people like
you and I to stay in the trade and not
spook ourselves out and give it to
experts as it gets more complicated so
building that business I've built
another business co-founded called
science magic Studios it's not really
announced so a lot of people see this
for the first time science matching
videos exactly it's called science magic
Studios it's a token Studio that advises
it it tokenizes the world's largest
cultural economies so that's massive
um
music stars Sports
fashion movie TV and book franchises
those are the four kind of verticals we
look at and as opposed to you exactly
sorry what do you do exactly
so we have so this is a um a JV between
myself Delphi digital Kevin Kelly is a
co-founder and a very good friend of
mine who kind of grew up together who
was the CEO of the Guardian newspaper
group he's he's got another business
called science magic Inc which is a the
kind of Nexus between influencers
Brands and community so when he was
building that business I said look what
we're missing is tokens so we put this
together we got some of the world's most
amazing investors on our cap table and
incredible advisors it's a ludicrous
group so sciencemagic studios.xyz
um and so that team builds the entire
strategy and execution for tokenizing
entire economies so that's from nfts so
if you think about how baldape Yacht
Club did it so yoga Labs a bit more
specifically which was you know they
started with nfts they start building
Community they had other communities
they build on and then they have a
social token around it and experiences
um that's the hard way the easy way is
if you've already got a hundred million
fans
that's wow that's really interesting I
didn't know that you were getting into
that
um yeah that's why we're talking so much
about this I've been working on this for
a long time and you know a couple of the
the
I mean fingers crossed but the first two
that we do will be some of the biggest
things ever attempted in web3
um so we'll see things what are your
thoughts on regulation
um
you know we know regulation you have to
figure out how to do this you know air
dropping let the market set the price
and it's all about utility it has to be
utility and not speculation if it's
speculation then it's a security it has
to be about creating a kind of digital
economy where tokens have utility and
scarcity for
for that community and if you guys
engage with Regulators or are you just
reading the tea leaves
um no I mean we have some of the world's
best law firms working with us and stuff
like that
um so you know there's a lot of these
that already exist obviously this token
economies
um and it is slowly slowly slowly catchy
monkey you can't go rushing into because
the size of these things I mean one of
the projects is has a reach of one point
three billion people whoa yeah and so
are you able to talk about it I'm super
curious
when is it supposed to Launch with that
when launched yet we're just finalizing
that that this stuff takes time because
you have to go small nobody needs to
know what you're doing you kind of
develop it and then build it out to a
much larger ecosystem so we'll see but
that's just very early stage we're still
hiring the final people on that so
that's the investment in myself real
Vision I'm retooling towards
um
we're not entirely towards but putting
these macro and crypto worlds together
which you and I've talked about in the
past because I passionately believe
they're all part of the same thing and
this is a huge opportunity set so um
doing that buying the other stuff and
trying to make sure I maintain income
because without income you're [__] you
need to create a system that both
increases the size of the pie and
divides it well okay and most
importantly divides opportunity well not
just the output well but opportunity but
also uh the world well